Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
320
Sustainability Disclosures
Climate related 
R&O
TCS Approach
Chronic physical
Despite the Paris Agreement and global climate action, global warming continues unabated. Having presence in 
many major cities across the world, TCS is subject to climate change related chronic physical impacts like change 
in precipitation pattern, with resultant effects like drought or flood. Also, with TCS’s presence in few coastal 
cities, rise in sea level and related impacts like land submergence, saltwater intrusion, disruption to network and 
communication systems are more likely. These risks are long term and included from perspective of planning 
appropriate infrastructure. TCS has set targets to reduce carbon emissions (scope 1 and 2) by 70% in 2025 
compared to 2016 base year and achieve Net Zero by 2030. These are aligned with the global goals taken under 
the Paris agreement to fight global warming by keeping the planet’s temperature below 1.5 degrees Celsius. TCS 
has reduced its absolute carbon footprint across Scope 1 and Scope 2 by 80% in FY 2024 over a baseline of 2016, 
exceeding TCS’ target achievement by 10%, one year ahead of time.
Business model and value chain
TCS’ business model and value chain includes its customers and suppliers. The sustainability and climate related transition risks are 
covered here along with some mitigation plans.
Customers: TCS is an IT services and business solution provider company working mostly with Fortune 1000 or Global 2000 corporations 
and the public sector. The customer perception around climate change risks has strengthened, especially in the major markets, and this is 
reflected in the increasing customer requests on climate change performance through platforms like CDP, SBTi commitment, RFPs. These 
all show how adapting to changing customer behaviour around climate change is crucial for business continuity.
TCS’ stakeholders, especially its customers and employees look at it as a responsible corporate citizen when it comes to climate action. 
The company’s efforts in this domain have been recognized through ESG ratings and CDP ratings / climate change performance (carbon 
reduction against targets, % renewable energy). In an event, if TCS is unable to meet its climate change commitments, it can lead to 
a negative impact on its brand and reputation, as well as ESG ratings. A failure to meet the targets, customer expectations or evolving 
regulatory requirements could also potentially affect its market capitalization. TCS ensures that these risks are identified at an early stage 
and work on mitigation and improvement plans. 
The company also has a robust business continuity plan. It is an end-to-end framework that effectively manages through defined policy, 
procedures, guidelines and through in-house developed tools that support planning and communication with all stakeholders. The 
framework is fully compliant and certified to ISO 22301:2019, CMMI-SVC and is integrated with TCS quality management system for 
consistent deployment across the organization. TCS also has Emergency Preparedness Plans (EPP) for disasters such as earthquake, floods, 
cyclones etc in its internal portal. The plan outlays the responsibilities of action owners, plan description including precautions to be 
taken, evacuation procedures and post incident action plan which would need to be followed at locations facing the emergency scenario.
Suppliers: Towards ongoing sustainability assessment, TCS launched its Supplier Sustainability Assessment Platform in FY 2023 and 
initiated on-boarding of its top supply chain partners. Through this platform, TCS plans to support its suppliers with engagement and 
guidance to help them improve their sustainability performance. In FY 2024, the company has successfully assessed 17% of its value 
chain partners (by spend) for sustainability criteria. These efforts ensure that all suppliers who form upstream part of the value chain are 
assessed for sustainability and climate risks. 
Strategy and decision-making
Climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced TCS’ strategy in the following ways:
 Area
Description of influence
Products and 
services
As TCS’ customers respond to climate change actions, the company is seeing opportunities to provide technology-
led solutions to help them achieve their sustainability goals. The change in technology consumption reflects the 
prevailing trends in the economy. Recent events have accelerated digital adoption, put the spotlight on supply 
chain resilience and added urgency to the sustainability imperative. Each of these represents an opportunity 
that can contribute towards the growth of not just as one company, but of the ecosystem. TCS leveraged its deep 
expertise in IoT, advanced analytics, and machine learning to come up with a suite of offerings in this space, 
including intellectual property such as Clever Energy™, IP2™, and TCS Envirozone™. Clients across industries are 
engaging us to develop innovative technology led solutions to reduce energy consumption, or to measure and 
track green-house gas emissions across their end-to-end supply chain, reduce their carbon footprint, reduce waste 
and promote recycling.
