CUSTOMER
S T O R I E S
What happens when two companies with a shared vision join 
forces? We have a greenfield insurance firm that is digital-first, 
always available and provides gold standard customer 
experience to its members. 
Irish bank, AIB and Great West Life Co entered a joint venture 
to transform the life, pensions, and investment market in 
Ireland. They also wanted to address the 35% gender gap in 
pensions. TCS was selected as a strategic partner for the newly 
launched AIB life in Ireland, including greenfield operations set 
up in Letterkenny. TCS helped create a modern, cloud-based 
technology stack from the ground up with its unique 
insurance-in-a-box solution. 
In Ireland, insurance offerings mainly follow a tiring process 
where the sales process can take weeks. TCS and AIB life 
re-imagined the entire journey, with a digital first ambition and 
customers at the heart of everything.  
A joint venture gives rise to a digitally powered insurance firm  
The entire system was built on a public cloud. The scalable, 
resilient, and future-ready system was up and running within 15 
months and AIB life had exceeded 5,000 new policy sales by the 
end of 2023.  
A dedicated, cloud-enabled contact center and back-office 
in Ireland supports AIB life’s operations – allowing their 
distributor to advise customers on 12 different product 
offerings. Further differentiated products are envisaged to 
enable AIB life to respond to market changes.  
TCS continues to support the firm in its mission of creating 
truly omnichannel experience, while handling 100+ policy 
activations on an average day, with self-service capabilities 
and straight through processing. 
After an 
extensive review of the 
market, it was clear that TCS’ contextual 
industry knowledge, European cloud-based technology 
and global delivery team based in Letterkenny was a great fit for 
us.  As we build and scale what is a new greenfield life company, it is key 
that we start on a foundation of cutting-edge technology, and from the outset, 
establish a digital business with a partner that shares our vision, with the capacity 
and experience to back our ambition to build our new company at pace, while being 
committed to delivering the very best for our customers. In addition, TCS’ investment in Ireland 
through their Global Delivery Centre in Letterkenny, from where we are servicing AIB life customers, enables 
us to deliver customer service excellence as we support the financial wellbeing of our customers, their 
families, and their businesses. Being able to do that from within Ireland was particularly important.
Bryan O’Connor
Chief Executive Officer
AIB life
Customer Stories
  
29
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
