Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
57
Directors’ Report
       	 Pursuant to the provisions of Section 129(3) of the Act, 
a statement containing the salient features of financial 
statements of the Company’s subsidiaries in  
Form No. AOC-1 is attached to the financial statements of 
the Company.
	
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section 136 of the 
Act, the financial statements of the Company, consolidated 
financial statements along with relevant documents 
and separate audited financial statements in respect of 
subsidiaries, are available on the Company’s website at 
https://www.tcs.com/investor-relations. 
7.	
Directors’ responsibility statement
	
Pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Act, the Board of 
Directors, to the best of its knowledge and ability,  
confirm that:
	
i.	
In the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards have been followed 
and there are no material departures;
	
ii.	
They have selected such accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company at the end of the financial year and of the 
profit of the Company for that period;
	
iii.	
They have taken proper and sufficient care for 
the maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
	
iv.	
They have prepared the annual accounts on a going 
concern basis;
	
v.	
They have laid down internal financial controls to be 
followed by the Company and such internal financial 
controls are adequate and operating effectively;
	
vi.	
They have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and that such systems are adequate and operating 
effectively.
	
Based on the framework of internal financial controls 
and compliance systems established and maintained 
by the Company, the work performed by the internal, 
statutory and secretarial auditors and external consultants, 
including the audit of internal financial controls over 
financial reporting by the statutory auditors and the 
reviews performed by management and the relevant board 
committees, including the audit committee, the Board is of 
the opinion that the Company’s internal financial controls 
were adequate and effective during FY 2024.
8.	
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
	
As on March 31, 2024, the Company has nine Directors 
with an optimum combination of Executive and  
Non-Executive Directors including two women directors. 
The Board comprises of seven Non-Executive Directors, out 
of which five are Independent Directors. 
	
During the year, the Members approved the following 
appointment and re-appointment of Directors: 
	
•	
appointment of K Krithivasan (DIN 10106739)  
as the CEO & MD of the Company with effect from 
June 1, 2023.
	
•	
re-appointment of Hanne Sorensen (DIN 08035439) 
and Keki Mistry (DIN 00008886) as Independent 
Directors for a second consecutive term of five years 
from December 18, 2023 upto December 17, 2028.
	
•	
appointment of Al-Noor Ramji (DIN 00230865) as an 
Independent Director for a term of five years from 
October 12, 2023 to October 11, 2028.
	
In the opinion of Board, Hanne Sorensen, Keki Mistry and 
Al-Noor Ramji are persons of integrity and fulfils requisite 
conditions as per applicable laws and are independent of 
the management of the Company.
	
During the year, Don Callahan (DIN 08326836) ceased to 
be Director of the Company with effect from January 10, 
2024, upon completion of his term as an Independent 
Director. The Board places on record its appreciation for his 
invaluable contribution and guidance.
	
On April 16, 2022, the Members approved the  
re-appointment of N G Subramaniam (DIN 07006215) as 
the COO & ED of the Company for a further period from 
February 21, 2022 to May 19, 2024, as per the retirement 
age policy for Directors of the Company and will hold office 
till such date. O P Bhatt (DIN 00548091) was re-appointed 
as an Independent Director at the twenty-fourth Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) of the Company held on June 13, 
2019, for a second term of five years and will hold office till 
June 26, 2024. The Board places on record its appreciation 
for their invaluable contribution and guidance.
	
N Chandrasekaran (DIN 00121863) retires by rotation 
and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. 
A resolution seeking Shareholders’ approval for his  
re-appointment along with other required details forms 
part of the Notice. 
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 149 of the Act, 
the Independent Directors have submitted declarations 
that each of them meets the criteria of independence 
as provided in Section 149(6) of the Act along with Rules 
framed thereunder and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. There has been no change in the 
circumstances affecting their status as independent 
directors of the Company.
	
During the year under review, the non-executive directors 
of the Company had no pecuniary relationship or 
transactions with the Company, other than sitting fees, 
commission and reimbursement of expenses, if any.
