Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
321
Sustainability Disclosures
 Area
Description of influence
Supply chain and/
or value chain
Supply Chain sustainability through responsible sourcing is one of the risk mitigations that TCS has identified 
under its sustainability risk. TCS’s Green Procurement policy outlines its commitment to making its supply chain 
more responsible and sustainable. Energy efficiency is one of the major procurement considerations in all the 
company’s IT assets procurement as this is directly correlated with its emission profile. Climate related risks play a 
very important role in supply chain engagements, and TCS is working with its suppliers to bring in improvements 
in overall supply chain sustainability related aspects. As mentioned in the previous section on suppliers, TCS has 
launched the supplier sustainability assessment platform to facilitate improvements in the supply chain through 
evaluation and assessment of suppliers.
Investment in R&I
TCS’ investments in R&I have resulted in solutions like Envirozone™, Clever Energy and IP2™. TCS has been 
using Clever Energy for the last several years to monitor and help reduce its energy consumption and is now 
commercially selling it and the other two solutions to clients to help them achieve their sustainability goals. 
Additionally, TCS has been investing in building green campuses (IGBC certified). These initiatives have enabled 
reduction of carbon footprint
Operations
Climate Change risks play an important consideration in TCS’ operations. TCS has created an environmentally 
sustainable approach by creating green policies, processes, frameworks, and infrastructure. The company’s 
campuses are designed to withstand extreme weather events and the business continuity plans are tested 
periodically to ensure continued operations without any disruption. Green buildings, efficient operations, green IT, 
the use of renewable energy to reduce carbon footprint; adoption of newer technologies and methods to manage 
waste in line with circular economy principles are integral to business operations. These all help the company in 
achieving its emission reduction targets and journey towards Net Zero by 2030.
Direct costs, Capital 
expenditures, 
Capital allocation 
assets
Climate risks and opportunities are one of the factors while making financial considerations especially while 
making investments in offices, equipment, and renewable energy production. Investment in these areas 
constitutes a substantial share of the company’s overall capital investment. Major investments are in green 
buildings, roof top solar and other energy efficiency initiatives. Refer BRSR section, Principle 6, page number 152, 
153 for more details on the initiatives that also help the company to position itself as leaders in the climate domain 
hence contribute substantially to its market value.
Financial position, financial performance, and cash flows
Substantive financial or strategic impact of Risk Assessment: 
Climate risks like business disruption, changing regulatory landscape, acute physical stress and transition risks are identified, prioritized, 
assessed and managed by the ERM team. Anything with the potential to disrupt regular operations by more than 10% and triggers 
Business Continuity Plans at the sites is considered as substantial. The financial risk exposure is calculated considering the following 
quantifiable indicators - (1) Proportion of business units affected OR percentage of operations impacted; (2) Probability of occurrence 
of extreme climate related events, and 3) the impact potential at the affected locations based on size of operation. In any given year 
the overall potential financial impact due to an extreme weather event is considered as 0.75% of the revenue. TCS considers a risk 
tolerance of 10% of the exposure for climate related risks and considered as substantive. Based on the severity and the risk exposure, the 
appropriate risk response is finalized, and mitigation actions are assigned to relevant functions.
The company has identified the following climate-related risks with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on the 
company’s business:
a.	
Risk of impact on direct operations: TCS has large operations based out of offices in coastal cities which have a high exposure to 
extreme weather events like high rainfall, cyclones, rise in sea level, etc. During FY 2024, there were no major cyclones that effected 
the company’s campuses. However, earlier event like Cyclone Amphan led to damages in its Kolkata, India campus specifically to the 
rooftop solar PV installations, solar water heater panels, roof mounted HVAC components, HRW electrical panel room, energy bin 
of biogas chamber, apart from multiple water leakages at basement and many other external physical damages. This indicates the 
increased severity and frequency of extreme weather events such as cyclones and floods and the impact these can cause directly 
on the operations. TCS accounts for such risks at design stage through cyclone and flood water resistance considerations while 
constructing new buildings. For greenfield projects, the building structure is designed (a) for seismic load as per IS 1893 (Part-1) 
2016; Amendment No:2-2020 and (b) for wind speeds as per IS 875 codes. 
	
TCS has a strong business continuity plan (critical business operations can be shifted to another city/country/geography) and 
therefore these physical risks will not affect the business operations significantly, except for the financial implications related to 
infrastructure damages (if any). Hence the potential financial impact due to physical damage because of extreme weather events is 
calculated as a percentage of revenue using a risk factor, which in turn is arrived through the company’s risk assessment exercises. 
The potential financial impact will be 0.75% of the revenue which comes to approximately ₹ 1,807 crores or US$218 million.
b.	
Risk of increase in capital expenditure: TCS is an IT services, consulting, and business solutions organization with a presence across 
multiple geographies, industries, services and products. Being one of the frontrunners in ESG performance, in 2021, the company 
has taken up ambitious carbon targets as mentioned in previous sections and have also achieved its near-term targets 2 years ahead 
