Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
61
Directors’ Report
procurement has resulted in an increase in renewable 
energy use to 74 percent of total energy use during the 
year.
	
TCS is certified to ISO 50001:2018 standards for Energy 
Management Systems (EnMS) across 22 campuses in India. 
Out of these, 2 campuses were added under certification 
in FY 2024, continuing our commitment to energy 
conservation and management.
	
The above energy efficiency and renewable energy 
procurement efforts helped achieve a year-on-year 
reduction in absolute carbon footprint (across Scope 1 
and Scope 2) of TCS’ global operations by 31 percent.  
The company has achieved 80% reduction in absolute 
emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) when compared to the 
base year of FY 2016. The electricity consumption across 
TCS operations increased by 14.6% in the current year 
compared to FY 2023. This is due to increased scale of 
operations considering increase in number of associates 
returning to office and inclusion of 14 locations globally 
in the reporting boundary, leading to a 2.8% increase in 
electricity consumption. 
	
The Company has achieved carbon neutrality across Scope 
1 and Scope 2 in Asia Pacific (including Japan), Europe, 
North America, UK & Ireland, Latin America, Middle East & 
Africa regions during the reporting year.
	
Continued focus on the above initiatives will enable the 
company’s aspiration of achieving its carbon target of  
Net Zero by 2030.
	
Technology absorption, adoption and innovation:
	
Research & Development (R&D): Specific areas in which 
R&D was carried out by the Company
	
TCS Research and Innovation delivered significant value 
to TCS’ customers, the research community and society at 
large through numerous initiatives and impactful outcomes.
	
Inventing for Impact:
	
TCS Research continued to expand its foundational research 
in computing and its intersection with the sciences with an 
emphasis on AI, especially Large Language Models (LLM).
	
The exploration of innovative uses of GenAI has been a 
focal point for TCS Research this year. TCS delved deep 
into three key areas: (i) Generative design for scientific 
and engineering applications, (ii) Transformation of 
knowledge work, encompassing but not restricted to 
software development and operations management, and 
(iii) Reimagination of the user engagement paradigm across 
diverse domains.
	
TCS explored use of GenAI to identify new molecules or 
modifications of existing molecules that show promise of 
being useful as new drugs (of medicinal value), as well as to 
evaluate them for ease of synthesis and manufacturing. TCS 
used GenAI to design alloys and materials while at the same 
time using generative exploration of the chemistry and the 
process route. The Company leveraged LLMs through the 
lens of domain models to curate ontology (information 
model) as well as failure/performance knowledge for large 
manufacturing operations reducing the time needed for 
such activities from months to days. The Munch Museum in 
Oslo is exploring the use of GenAI with TCS to create a  
co-drawing system for museum visitors. The use of GenAI in 
all domains of human activity is exploding and TCS Research 
is at the forefront of several such explorations.
	
The Company’s research on enterprise digital twins 
witnessed accelerated growth due to a growing interest 
and adoption of this technology across industries from 
communications to airlines and retail. TCS’ strategy of 
investing in robotics translated to a business initiative and 
gained traction with customers leading to collaborative 
partnerships with major robotics accelerators such as 
the National Robotarium, UK and MassRobotics, US. The 
software research teams continued with their focus on  
self-healing and adaptive model-driven software 
architecture, adapting to changes and uncertainties 
seamlessly. 
	
TCS continues to explore and invest in foundation research 
encompassing topics like computing for finance, building 
digital twins for the human heart and brain, quantum 
computing and nano sensing for future IoT and healthcare 
applications, meta-material based reconfigurable intelligent 
surfaces for next-generation wireless systems like 6G, 
neuromorphic computing for low-power edge-AI,  
post-quantum cryptography, and other emerging as well as 
futuristic technologies.
	
TCS continues to contribute to standards in areas such as 
environmental engineering, cyber security, cyber resilience, 
Internet of Things, smart cities, software architecture, 
quantum computing and communication, accessibility of 
ICT for the differently abled, AI, Metaverse, Agile Devops, 
e-Learning and FinTech-RegTech.
	
Our brand TCS Research won at the Global Social Media 
Awards UK 2023 for ‘Best Use of LinkedIn’. The Global Social 
Media Awards celebrates businesses around the world that 
are crashing through the algorithms and channelizing the 
chatter to create innovative, meaningful engagement that 
produces tangible results. This recognition is a testament to 
content innovation and motivates the Company to continue 
to inspire and transform the world through impactful 
stories of research and innovation.
	
Strengthening IP Base:
	
TCS launched new IP-based offerings and enhancements 
of existing IP-based offerings. The Revenue Management 
Solution strategically navigates CPG growth by leveraging 
data and insights to optimize pricing, promotions, product 
mix, and trade investments. TCS’ Observability Solution 
ensures intelligent, secure, and proactive monitoring for 
hybrid cloud applications, supporting diverse environments 
from SAP to Oracle ERP to custom applications across  
multi-cloud landscapes. The Company’s Cross Industry Digital 
Commerce Platform provides multitude core capabilities, 
industry specific capabilities and an ecosystem orchestration 
capability to the Retail, CPG, Airline and Telecom industries.
	
TCS ADD™ Metadata Repository won two awards for 
Excellence in Ancillary Pharma Services and Excellence 
