Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
270
Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
	
•	
Foreign currency exchange rate risk
	
	
The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential impact on the statement of profit and loss and other 
comprehensive income and equity, where any transaction references more than one currency or where assets / liabilities 
are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Company. Considering the countries and economic 
environment in which the Company operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from fluctuations in exchange rates in 
those countries. 
	
	
The Company, as per its risk management policy, uses derivative instruments primarily to hedge foreign exchange. Further, 
any movement in the functional currency of the various operations of the Company against major foreign currencies may 
impact the Company’s revenue in international business.
	
	
The Company evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. It 
hedges a part of these risks by using derivative financial instruments in line with its risk management policies.
	
	
The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated by aggregation of the net foreign exchange rate exposure and a 
simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rates shift of all the currencies by 10% against the functional currency of the 
Company.
	
	
The following analysis has been worked out based on the net exposures of the Company as of the date of balance sheet 
which could affect the statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income and equity. Further the exposure as 
indicated below is mitigated by some of the derivative contracts entered into by the Company as disclosed in note 6(l).
	
	
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2024:
(` crore)
USD
EUR
GBP
Others
Net financial assets
 4,243 
 507 
 379 
 2,143 
Net financial liabilities
 (11,238)
 (760)
 (2,215)
 (1,530)
	
	
10% appreciation / depreciation of the functional currency of the Company with respect to various foreign currencies would 
result in increase / decrease in the Company’s profit before taxes by approximately `847 crore for the year ended  
March 31, 2024.
	
	
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2023:
(` crore)
USD
EUR
GBP
Others
Net financial assets
 2,747 
 91 
 436 
 2,736 
Net financial liabilities
 (12,419)
 (723)
 (1,923)
 (1,108)
	
	
10% appreciation / depreciation of the functional currency of the Company with respect to various foreign currencies would 
result in increase / decrease in the Company’s profit before taxes by approximately `1,016 crore for the year ended  
March 31, 2023.
	
•	
Interest rate risk
	
	
The Company’s investments are primarily in fixed rate interest bearing investments. Hence, the Company is not significantly 
exposed to interest rate risk.
	
Credit risk
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counterparty failure to repay or service debt according to the contractual terms 
or obligations. Credit risk encompasses of both, the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration of creditworthiness as well 
as concentration of risks. Credit risk is controlled by analysing credit limits and creditworthiness of customers on a continuous 
basis to whom the credit has been granted after obtaining necessary approvals for credit. Refer note 4 for methods, assumptions 
and information used to measure expected credit losses.
	
Financial instruments that are subject to credit risk consist of trade receivables, loans, investments, derivative financial 
instruments, cash and cash equivalents, bank deposits and other financial assets. Bank deposits include an amount of `2,500 
crore held with two banks having high credit rating which are individually in excess of 10% or more of the Company’s total bank 
deposits as at March 31, 2024. None of the other financial instruments of the Company result in material concentration of credit 
risk.
