Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
245
Standalone Financial Statements
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
(i)	
(a)	 (A)	 The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars, including quantitative 
details and situation of Property, Plant and 
Equipment.
	
	
(B)	 The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of intangible assets.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has a regular 
programme of physical verification of its Property, 
Plant and Equipment by which all property, plant 
and equipment are verified in a phased manner 
over a period of three years. In accordance with this 
programme, certain property, plant and equipment 
were verified during the year. In our opinion, this 
periodicity of physical verification is reasonable having 
regard to the size of the Company and the nature of 
its assets. No material discrepancies were noticed on 
such verification.
	
(c)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the title deeds of immovable 
properties (other than immovable properties where 
the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements 
are duly executed in favour of the lessee) disclosed 
in the standalone financial statements are held in the 
name of the Company.
	
(d)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination of 
the records of the Company, the Company has not 
revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment (including 
Right of Use assets) or intangible assets or both during 
the year.
	
(e)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, there are no proceedings 
initiated or pending against the Company for holding 
any benami property under the Prohibition of Benami 
Property Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made 
thereunder.
(ii)	 (a)	 The inventory has been physically verified by the 
management during the year. In our opinion, the 
Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Standalone Financial 
Statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2024
frequency of such verification is reasonable and 
procedures and coverage as followed by management 
were appropriate. No discrepancies were noticed on 
verification between the physical stocks and the book 
records that were 10% or more in the aggregate for 
each class of inventory.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has been 
sanctioned working capital limits in excess of five 
crore rupees, in aggregate, from banks on the basis of 
security of current assets. In our opinion, the quarterly 
returns or statements filed by the Company with such 
banks are in agreement with the books of account of 
the Company. The Company has not been sanctioned 
any working capital limit from the financial institutions.
(iii)	 According to the information and explanations given to us 
and on the basis of our examination of the records, the 
Company has made investments and has granted loans 
or advances in the nature of loans, unsecured, to other 
parties during the year, in respect of which the requisite 
information is as below. The Company has not made any 
investments and has not granted any loans or advances 
in the nature of loans, unsecured, to companies, firms or 
limited liability partnerships during the year. The Company 
has not provided any guarantee or security or granted 
any loans or advances in the nature of loans, secured, to 
companies, firms, limited liability partnerships or any other 
parties during the year.
	
(a)	 A.	
Based on the audit procedures carried on by 
us and as per the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has not given any 
loans or advances in the nature of loans or stood 
guarantee or provided security to subsidiaries. 
The Company does not hold any investment in 
any joint ventures or associates.
	
	
B.	
Based on the audit procedures carried on by 
us and as per the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has given unsecured 
loans and unsecured advances in the nature of 
loans to parties other than subsidiaries as listed 
below. The Company has not stood guarantee 
or provided security to parties other than 
subsidiaries.
