Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
293
Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
15)	 Income taxes
	
Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during the year. 
Current and deferred taxes are recognised in statement of profit and loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised 
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
	
Current income taxes
	
The current income tax expense includes income taxes payable by the Company having its branches in India and overseas where it 
operates. The current tax payable by the Company in India is Indian income tax payable on income after taking credit for tax relief 
available for export operations in Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
	
Current income tax payable by overseas branches of the Company is computed in accordance with the tax laws applicable in the 
jurisdiction in which the respective branch operates. The taxes paid are generally available for set off against the Indian income 
tax liability of the Company’s worldwide income.
	
Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are presented in the balance sheet after off-setting advance tax paid and 
income tax provision arising in the same tax jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying unit intends to settle the asset and 
liability on a net basis.
	
Deferred income taxes
	
Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet approach. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised 
for deductible and taxable temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount, 
except when the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a 
business combination, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.
	
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.
	
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using substantively enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the 
years in which the temporary differences are expected to be received or settled.
	
For operations carried out in SEZs, deferred tax assets or liabilities, if any, have been established for the tax consequences of those 
temporary differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases that reverse after the tax 
holiday ends.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the 
relevant entity intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
	
Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) paid in accordance with the tax laws in India, to the extent it would be 
available for set off against future current income tax liability. Accordingly, MAT is recognised as deferred tax asset in the balance 
sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will 
be realised.
	
The income tax expense consists of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended  
March 31, 2024
Year ended  
March 31, 2023
Current tax
Current tax expense for current year
 14,422 
 13,623 
Current tax benefit pertaining to prior years
 (244)
 (677)
 14,178 
 12,946 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax benefit for current year
 (135)
 (362)
 (135)
 (362)
 14,043 
 12,584 
