API
See Application Programming Interface
APIfication
The process of exposing a discrete business function or data within an enterprise’s systems through APIs.
Application 
Development and 
Maintenance
Design, development, and deployment of custom software; ongoing support, upkeep, and enhancement of such 
software over its lifetime.
Application 
Programming 
Interface 
A set of easily accessible protocols for communication among various software components.
AR
See Augmented Reality
Artificial General 
Intelligence
A type of artificial intelligence that can perform as well or better than humans on a wide range of cognitive tasks.
Artificial 
Intelligence
Technology that emulates human performance by learning, coming to its own conclusions, understanding 
complex content, engaging in natural dialogs with people, augmenting human effort or replacing people on 
execution of non-routine tasks. Also known as Cognitive Computing.
ASEAN
Acronym for Association of Southeast Asian Nations
Assets Under 
Custody
A measure of the total assets for which a financial institution, typically a custodian bank, provides custodian 
services.
Attrition
Measures what portion of the workforce left the organization (voluntarily and involuntarily) over the last 12 
months (LTM).
Attrition (LTM) = Total number of departures in the LTM / closing headcount
AUC
See Assets Under Custody
Augmented Reality
Technology that superimposes a computer-generated image on a user’s view of the real world to enrich the 
interaction.
Automation
The execution of work by machines in accordance with rules that have either been explicitly coded by a human or 
‘learned’ by the machine through pattern recognition of data. Popular types include Robotic Process Automation 
and Cognitive Automation.
Avatar
An avatar is a digital representation of yourself, whether it’s in a video game, the metaverse, or wherever else it 
might be applicable.
Basis Point
One hundredth of a percentage point, that is, 0.01 percent.
BFSI
Acronym for Banking, Financial Services and Insurance
Big Data
A high volume, high velocity, and/or high variety information asset that require new forms of processing to enable 
enhanced decision making, insight discovery, and process optimization.
Blockchain
A distributed database that maintains a continuously growing list of records, called blocks, secured from 
tampering and revision.
Bp
See Basis Point
BPaaS
See Business Process as a Service
BPS
See Business Process Services
Business Process as 
a Service
Refers to the delivery of BPS over a cloud computing model. Whereas traditional BPS relies on labor arbitrage 
to reduce costs, BPaaS aggregates demand using the cloud, servicing multiple customers with a single instance, 
multi-tenant platform and shared services, thereby delivering significant operating efficiencies. The pricing model 
is usually outcome based.
Business Process 
Services
Designing, enabling, and executing business operations including data management, analytics, interactions and 
experience management.
Buyback
A corporate action in which a company returns excess cash to shareholders by buying back its shares from them 
and usually extinguishing those shares thereafter. The company’s equity share capital and the number of shares 
outstanding in the market correspondingly reduces.
CAGR
See Compounded Annual Growth Rate 
Capital Expenditure 
(CapEx)
Funds used by a company to purchase property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (net of proceeds from 
disposal of such assets) and for payment including advances for acquiring right-of-use assets.
Carbon Neutral
Not adding new greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to the atmosphere through reduction initiatives and where 
emissions continue, they are compensated by absorbing an equivalent amount from the atmosphere through 
carbon offset.
Carbon Offset
Market-based instrument used to compensate for the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere 
because of the organization’s activity by reducing them somewhere else. Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) 
and Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) are some of the popular carbon offsets.
Cash and Cash 
Equivalents
Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits. Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments 
that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 
value. Cash and cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather than 
for investment or other purposes.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
308
Glossary
