Sponsored 13 running events through the year, including the 
TCS New York City Marathon, TCS Amsterdam Marathon, TCS 
London Marathon, TCS Toronto Waterfront Marathon and 
TCS Lidingöloppet, where total distance covered by the runners 
crossed more than 80 million miles. 
TCS New York City Marathon
TCS London Marathon
TCS Toronto Waterfront Marathon
Q3
Selected by ASX, Australia’s primary 
securities exchange to provide 
a next generation clearing and 
settlement platform to service the 
Australian market. TCS will leverage 
its flagship product TCS BaNCS for 
Market Infrastructure to enable the 
transformation, replacing ASX’s existing 
platform for cash equities clearing and 
settlement.   
Partnered with The Munch Museum in Oslo, to 
create immersive and interactive drawing experiences for local 
visitors and global audiences. Scientists from TCS Research 
will leverage their expertise in AI and Machine Learning to 
bring Edvard Munch’s artworks and creative process to life 
through the power of digital innovation. TCS will also provide IT 
consultancy, collaborative workshops, and talent exchanges to 
help create immersive museum experiences that showcase the 
future of art.
Professor Dan Johnson, Pro Vice-Chancellor – Research, Innovation 
and Enterprise, Macquarie University; K. Krithivasan, CEO & MD, 
TCS; and Girish Ramachandran, President, TCS Growth Markets at 
the launch of the TCS GoZero Hub in Sydney.
Paid tribute to the passing away of Mr. Y P Sahni, one of the 
members of the original founding team at TCS, who laid the 
foundations of the company and served as the President till his 
retirement in 1996. 
Signed a multi-year partnership with ASDA in a divestiture 
and digital transformation deal, to help implement a new 
organization-wide IT operating model, following its divestiture 
from Walmart. The strategic partnership will leverage TCS’ cloud, 
AI, and security solutions to help ASDA deliver the divestiture 
smoothly, on-time and securely, in addition to further enabling 
ASDA in enhancing its customer experience and innovation 
capabilities to help increase their market share and retain price 
leadership.
Selected by TPG Telecom, Australia’s leading 
telecommunications company, as a strategic technology 
transformation partner, to simplify and streamline internal 
systems and platforms, enhance customer journeys and 
products, and increase digitisation. This will help TPG Telecom 
become Australia’s best digital telco by delivering great value 
connectivity services to end customers.
Partnered with Macquarie University to launch the TCS GoZero 
Hub, a research and innovation center to guide Australian 
organizations in their journeys towards net zero carbon 
emissions. Aligning with the central themes of COP28, this 
hub will focus on five core themes – energy transition, carbon 
management, nature positive future, circular economy and 
sustainable waste management, and climate adaptation and 
resilience – and how to limit and prepare for future climate 
change. The TCS GoZero Hub will also support education 
pathways, providing relevant skills and knowledge to prepare 
students for successful, future-focused careers. 
The Year Gone By
  
12
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
