Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
224
Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
16)	 Finance costs
	
Finance costs consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended  
March 31, 2024
Year ended  
March 31, 2023
Interest on lease liabilities
 518 
 492 
Interest on tax matters
30 
46 
Other interest costs
 230 
 241 
778 
 779 
17)	 Income taxes
	
Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during the year. 
Current and deferred taxes are recognised in statement of profit and loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised 
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
	
Current income taxes
	
The current income tax expense includes income taxes payable by the Company and its subsidiaries in India and overseas. The 
current tax payable by the Company and its subsidiaries in India is Indian income tax payable on income after taking credit for tax 
relief available for export operations in Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
	
Current income tax payable by overseas branches of the Company is computed in accordance with the tax laws applicable in the 
jurisdiction in which the respective branch operates. The taxes paid are generally available for set off against the Indian income 
tax liability of the Company’s worldwide income.
	
The current income tax expense for overseas subsidiaries has been computed based on the tax laws applicable to each subsidiary 
in the respective jurisdiction in which it operates.
	
Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are presented in the balance sheet after off-setting advance tax paid and 
income tax provision arising in the same tax jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying unit intends to settle the asset and 
liability on a net basis.
	
Deferred income taxes
	
Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet approach. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised 
for deductible and taxable temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount, 
except when the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is 
not a business combination, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction. 
	
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised. 
	
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
	
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable temporary 
differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using substantively enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the 
years in which the temporary differences are expected to be received or settled.
	
For operations carried out in SEZs, deferred tax assets or liabilities, if any, have been established for the tax consequences of 
those temporary differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases that reverse after 
the tax holiday ends.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the 
relevant entity intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
