Inadequate adult literacy is a problem preventing India 
from achieving its full economic potential. Majority of the 
non-literate population comprises women, and from 
marginalized communities. TCS’ Literacy as a Service (LaaS) 
program addresses non-literacy among adults and creates 
awareness of key citizen entitlements. It serves the dual 
purpose of improving the literacy rate in the country and 
promoting social inclusion and ﬁnancial stability for 
marginalized communities. LaaS’ innovative teaching 
method leverages technology, the theory of cognition, and 
the laws of perception. The program’s creative means of 
delivery uses animated graphic patterns for easy visual and 
auditory learning.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
118
Corporate Social Responsibility
This past year TCS has made signiﬁcant progress in its 
mission, empowering over 7 million people through its 
CSR programs including big bets aimed at people with 
highest need, in communities where resources are low, 
while using its core strengths to make a meaningful impact. 
This resulted in upward socio-economic mobility for 
797,749 people, building equitable and inclusive pathways 
for 405,775 women, 455,692 youth and 547,311 from 
marginalized groups.
This was achieved by scaling TCS’ high impact programs 
across India and 43 countries around the world, against 
four strategic themes (and eight focus areas): provide a 
21st century education for all (Education and Research, 
Literacy to Livelihood), help citizens equitably access good 
jobs of tomorrow (Employment through Skilling, Digital 
Entrepreneurship), enable delivery of world class front-line 
services in poorest districts (Healthcare, Digital Inclusion), 
and accelerate the just transition to a green economy 
(Water, Climate and Sustainability). No one organization 
can do this alone, and TCS through its purpose ecosystem 
engaged the key stakeholders to support the needs of the 
local communities.
TCS served 20,342 marginalized people through its 
Literacy as a Service program, empowering them through 
functional, ﬁnancial, and digital literacy. Gaining 
self-conﬁdence, dignity, and access to key citizen 
entitlements, they traversed a path from a vicious cycle of 
poverty, bonded labor, and harsh work conditions to 
charting their own course of savings and livelihood.
The onus of building Responsible AI rests not with today’s 
companies, workforce, and policy makers, but more so lies 
in the hands of the next generation of innovators. 
Empowering 6,209 teachers to inculcate computational 
thinking, Ignite my Future program of TCS prepared 
312,966 students across ﬁve continents with foundational 
skills for the age of AI, while the goIT digital innovation 
program inspired 118,016 students across 42 countries 
apply 21st Century Skills and latest technologies like AI, IoT, 
and App Design to solve real-world problems in their 
community. The most gratifying aspect is 53% of these 
students are girls and 76% from underrepresented 
minorities.
Gaining access to quality jobs in today’s digital economy can 
often be a challenge, even for those educated from leading 
institutions. TCS imparted marketable skills, credentials, and 
valuable certiﬁcations to 23,297 rural youth from 24 states 
and union territories across India, coaching and mentoring 
them for industry readiness through its Youth Employment 
Program. Nearly half of these are women, improving their 
income opportunities and participation in economic growth.
Across 1,735 villages in rural India, digital entrepreneurs 
from the TCS program ‘BridgeIT’, are earning their livelihood 
while providing much needed last-mile services to 312,175 
beneﬁciaries such as access to citizen entitlements, 
banking, ﬁnancial services, insurance, telehealth, telelaw, 
logistics, ecommerce and more. Expanding the program to 
44 districts, a new cohort of 1,400 women entrepreneurs 
from socially marginalized background are gearing up to be 
catalysts to strengthen the rural economy.
In a transformational year for community service, HOPE 
(Hours of Purpose by Employees), a TCS program saw 
volunteers contribute over 6.7 million hours to support 
the poor with basic necessities, to create better health 
outcomes for those who need help, to preserve and protect 
the environment, to empower better education, 
employment, entrepreneurship, and livelihoods for the 
marginalized. TCSers also built capacity and capability for 
over 50 social sector organizations through skills-based 
volunteering, providing in-kind digital, advisory and 
technology consulting services.
TCS jointly served needy communities around the world 
through 138 purpose partnerships, working alongside other 
Tata Group companies, its customers, and like-minded 
organizations through its Business with Purpose program. 
TCS harnessed the wisdom of over 1,800 cross-sector 
leaders through 11 Digital Empowers thought leadership 
forums, using their collective wisdom to help advance 
advocacy and policy eﬀorts globally.
Literacy as a Service (LaaS)
Beneﬁciaries: 19,761 | Preraks: 581
Vulnerable & marginalized: 99%
