Across industries globally, there are multiple mega trends 
that are shaping priorities of businesses: AI, New Energy, 
Supply Chain and Talent. These transitions will require 
substantial investment in technology across industry 
sectors. Your company is making significant investments 
and building capabilities to partner with customers 
during this phase of rapid technological shifts.
Letter from the Chairman 
  
6
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Letter from the
Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
In FY 2024, your company has continued to deliver strong 
performance. I am pleased to share with you that your company 
has crossed annual revenues of ₹240,893 crore, a growth of 
6.8%, over the previous year. With relentless focus on operational 
excellence, this growth has come at an industry leading operating 
margin of 24.6%*, an increase from 24.1% last year. The order 
book for FY 2024 came at an all-time high of US$ 42.7 billion 
supported by strong client relationships and engagement. Client 
metrics continue to exhibit healthy progress with strong client 
additions. Employee retention continues to be at benchmark 
levels in the industry. TCS has been selected as a Top Employer of 
Choice in 32 countries. TCS has retained its ranking as the second 
most valuable global IT services brand, valued at US$19.2 billion, 
an increase of US$2 billion from last year.
The global environment around the world continues to go 
through significant shifts. Post the pandemic, which resulted in 
supply chain shocks, there was an economic slowdown especially 
in developed markets. While initial signs of stability began to 
emerge, the military conflicts have further intensified this year 
and continue to impact the global supply chains. 
After two years of recessionary fears, persistently high 
inflation, and unprecedented monetary tightening, the global 
macro-outlook looks relatively better now with improving 
growth, disinflation, and monetary easing in sight.
Across industries globally, there are multiple mega trends that 
are shaping priorities of businesses: AI, New Energy, Supply 
Chain and Talent. 
•	
GenAI technologies will impact almost every sector and 
country going forward. Enterprises have already invested 
in cloud, data infrastructure and large processing power 
which will aid AI/ GenAI. GenAI will not only improve 
productivity, but also create impact we hitherto have not 
seen or imagined. 
•	
Global energy transition is accelerating, and businesses 
are making clear commitments towards a sustainable 
future. The energy requirement of our fast-changing world 
is enormous. Key is to lower the cost of energy while also 
transitioning to renewables. This transition requires large 
investment in technology, electric mobility, renewable 
power, hydrogen and sustainable fuel. 
*Excludes settlement of legal claim
