Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
168
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
 
 
2 | P a g e 
 
In our opinion, the company’s Identified Sustainability Information on pages 127 to 166 of the Annual 
Report for the period 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024, subject to reasonable assurance is prepared, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(SEBI) Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements (SEBI LODR) and basis of preparation set out in 
page 128 Section A: General Disclosures 13 of the Integrated Annual Report. 
We do not express an assurance opinion on information in respect of any other information included in the 
Integrated Annual Report 2024 or linked from the Sustainability Information or from the Integrated Annual 
Report 2023, including any images, audio files or embedded videos. 
 
Basis for opinion 
We conducted our engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
(ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). Our 
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Our responsibilities” section of our 
report. 
We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the International Code of Ethics 
for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) issued by the International 
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA). 
Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Management (ISQM) 1, Quality Management for Firms 
that Perform Audits or Reviews of Financial Statements, or Other Assurance or Related Services 
Engagements, issued by the IAASB. This standard requires the firm to design, implement and operate a 
system of quality management, including policies or procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. 
Other information 
Additionally, we have performed a limited assurance engagement on select BRSR and GRI indicators and 
issued an independent assurance report on 08 May 2024. 
Our report thereon is included with the other information.  
Our reasonable assurance opinion on the ISI does not extend to other information that accompanies or 
contains the ‘ISI and our assurance report’ (hereafter referred to as “other information”). We have read the 
other information, but we have not performed any procedures with respect to the other information. 
 
Other matter 
Select BRSR Core attributes of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2023 were assured by the 
previous assurance practitioner who had expressed an unmodified opinion on 09 June 2023.  
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
 
