Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
176
Consolidated Financial Statements
examination of those books except for the 
matters stated in paragraph 2(B)(f) below on 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
	
	
c.	
The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the consolidated 
statement of changes in equity and the 
consolidated statement of cash flows dealt with 
by this Report are in agreement with the relevant 
books of account maintained for the purpose 
of preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements.
	
	
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements comply with the Ind AS 
specified under Section 133 of the Act.
	
	
e.	
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Holding 
Company as on 1 April 2024 to 10 April 2024 
taken on record by the Board of Directors of the 
Holding Company and on the basis of written 
representations received by the management 
from directors of its subsidiaries which are 
incorporated in India, as on 31 March 2024 to 10 
April 2024, none of the directors of the Group 
companies incorporated in India is disqualified 
as on 31 March 2024 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
	
	
f.	
The modifications relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith 
are as stated in the paragraph 2(A)(b) above on 
reporting under Section 143(3)(b) of the Act and 
paragraph 2(B)(f) below on reporting under Rule 
11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014.
	
	
g.	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer 
to our separate Report in “Annexure B”.
	
B.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
	
	
a.	
The consolidated financial statements disclose 
the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 
2024 on the consolidated financial position of the 
Group. Refer income tax liabilities disclosed in the 
consolidated balance sheet along with Note 20 to 
the consolidated financial statements.
	
	
b.	
The Group did not have any material foreseeable 
losses on long-term contracts including derivative 
contracts during the year ended 31 March 2024.
	
	
c.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts 
to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Holding Company during the year ended 
31 March 2024. There are no amounts which 
are required to be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India during the year 
ended 31 March 2024.
	
	
d.	
(i)	
The management of the Holding Company 
represented that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the 
Note 23 to the consolidated financial 
statements, no funds have been advanced 
or loaned or invested (either from 
borrowed funds or share premium or any 
other sources or kind of funds) by the 
Holding Company or any of its subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India to or in 
any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Holding Company or any of its subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(ii)	 The management of the Holding Company 
represented that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the 
Note 23 to the consolidated financial 
statements, no funds have been received 
by the Holding Company or any of its 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India 
from any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing 
or otherwise, that the Holding Company or 
any of its subsidiary companies incorporated 
in India shall directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Parties (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(iii)	 Based on the audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us 
to believe that the representations under 
sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as 
provided under (i) and (ii) above, contain 
any material misstatement.
