Best regards,
K Krithivasan
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
We launched several initiatives this year to inculcate a 
strong engineering culture among our employees and build 
deeper skills in market relevant technologies like Cloud, AI, 
Cyber Security and more. TCS is collaborating with all the
hyperscalers and entering new partnerships with other
important players in the AI ecosystem to upskill at scale and 
build AI computing infrastructure to develop AI solutions for our 
customers.
In FY 2024, TCSers logged 51 million learning hours, and 
acquired nearly 5 million competencies. A culture of lifelong 
learning and innovation, by closely linking learning with careers 
and rewards, has placed us as the Global Top Employer for the 
9th consecutive year, across 32 countries — placing us as one in 
only 16 organizations worldwide to achieve this status.
Embracing Aalingana
We have fully adopted  Project Aalingana, the Tata group’s 
sustainability roadmap and the aim is to be net zero by
2045, integrating sustainability into business strategy and 
concentrating on three interlinked pillars of the project, i.e., 
promoting the decarbonization of our company and value 
chains; utilizing a systematic, circular economy approach
to reduce resource usage and waste; and protecting and 
regenerating the environment.
We continue to make good progress in our net zero journey, 
on the environmental front. TCS had set a target to reduce its 
absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 70% by 2025 and
become net zero by 2030. We are well ahead of our initial Scope 
1 and 2 targets and have achieved a reduction of 80% in Scope 
1 and 2 emissions in FY 2024 over a baseline of 2016. We are 
doing this by increasing use of renewable sources of energy and 
improving energy efficiency.
The company’s strategy for reducing emissions includes addition 
of more green buildings to the company’s real estate portfolio, 
reduction of IT system power usage, responsible sourcing, and 
the use of TCS Clever EnergyTM, which leverages IoT, machine 
learning and AI to optimize energy consumption across 
campuses.
TCS is not only improving its own sustainability but also helping 
clients develop and implement their sustainability strategies 
and improve outcomes. We have built a comprehensive suite of 
over 200 offerings in sustainability services and solutions across 
different industry verticals. These solutions help enterprises 
decarbonize their operations and create net-zero pathways, 
addressing biodiversity loss and growing inequity. We help 
customers embed circularity in their products and services, by 
helping design agile, resilient, and sustainable supply chains and 
promoting reuse, recapture, and recycling.
Passion for Our Purpose
TCS is meaningfully connecting marginalized groups, including 
women and youth, to economic opportunities. We continue 
to work with communities across the world, pursuing our 
long-standing commitment to programs in the areas of 
education, literacy for livelihood, skilling for employment, and 
digital entrepreneurship; while exploring areas of healthcare, 
digital inclusion, water, climate and sustainability.
Through clearly defined focus areas and strategic programs, our 
work has impacted the lives of over 7.1 million people. We are 
working with public and social sector organizations to help close 
the literacy gap among the most marginalized adults, helping 
them access government entitlements and improving access to 
livelihood. We are empowering students in government schools 
with 21st century skills, introducing them to careers of the 
future, while empowering and building capacity of the teachers 
and education system.
By working with other private sector organizations, we are 
helping marginalized youth transition from college to meaningful 
careers across a variety of sectors. Our digital entrepreneurs are 
connecting disadvantaged communities in rural and aspirational 
districts across India with front line services in social welfare, 
banking, finance, insurance, health, e-commerce, logistics and 
more.
Our employee volunteer program called HOPE (Hours of 
Purpose by Employees) resulted in over 6.7 million hours 
dedicated to purpose projects across dimensions of biodiversity, 
mental health, climate action, circularity, literacy, education, 
skilling, mentoring, conservation and more covering the 17 UN 
Sustainable Development Goals.
Greater Governance
Governance at TCS encompasses ensuring ethical and 
transparent business conduct, addressing sustainability risks and 
opportunities and aligning robust disclosure requirements under 
the aegis of the board. At TCS, the Tata Code of Conduct serves 
as a guide for all employee behavior.
TCS consciously embeds the highest standards of governance 
in its operations. We have a holistic compliance framework and 
an integrated governance structure that encourages a strong 
commitment to global Environment, Social and Governance 
(ESG) disclosure standards for promoting transparency and 
accountability. As part of the Tata Group, we have long
recognized the ESG stewardship as core to our purpose. We have 
a proud legacy of pioneering positive change, not just within the 
industry but in the communities where we operate as well, and 
our commitment remains steadfast.
Looking Ahead
Our all-time high order book, continued deal flow and pipeline 
velocity give us confidence in our business momentum. Looking 
forward, we see greater opportunities ahead, as businesses 
become more technology-intensive and depend on technology 
to drive competitive differentiation and transform their 
industries. Our integrated business model which drives value 
creation for all our stakeholders, will continue to help us benefit 
from each new wave of technology change, and be a force 
multiplier for our growth and leadership in years to come. We 
thank you for your continued support in our journey ahead.
Letter from the CEO
  
10
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
