Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
170
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
 
 
4 | P a g e 
 
Inherent limitations in preparing the ISI 
The preparation of the company’s BRSR information requires the management to establish or interpret the 
criteria, make determinations about the relevancy of information to be included, and make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported information. 
Measurement of certain amounts and BRSR Core metrics, some of which are estimates, is subject to 
substantial inherent measurement uncertainty, for example, GHG emissions, water footprint, energy 
footprint. Obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence to support our opinion does not reduce the uncertainty 
in the amounts and metrics.  
 
Our responsibilities 
We are responsible for: 
• 
Planning and performing the engagement to obtain reasonable assurance on the sustainability 
disclosures in the BRSR Core are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
in accordance with the Reporting Criteria in line with the section above.  
• 
Forming an independent opinion, based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we 
have obtained, and 
• 
Reporting our reasonable assurance opinion to the Directors of Tata Consultancy Services Limited.  
 
Exclusions 
Our assurance scope excludes the following and therefore we will not express a opinion on the same: 
• 
Operations of the Company other than those mentioned in the “Scope of Assurance”. 
• 
Aspects of the BRSR and the data/information (qualitative or quantitative) other than the ISI. 
• 
Data and information outside the defined reporting period i.e., from 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024.  
• 
The statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim, or future 
intentions provided by the Company. 
 
Summary of the work we performed as the basis for our opinion 
We exercised professional judgment and maintained professional skepticism throughout the engagement. 
We designed and performed our procedures to obtain evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for our reasonable assurance opinion.  
Reasonable assurance opinion 
The nature, timing, and extent of the procedures selected depended on our judgment, including an 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the information subject to reasonable assurance, whether 
due to fraud or error. We identified and assessed the risks of material misstatement through understanding 
the Information subject to reasonable assurance and the engagement circumstances. We also obtained an 
understanding of the internal control relevant to the information subject to reasonable assurance in order to 
