Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
135
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
PRINCIPLE 2 : Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and 
social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
FY 2023-24 
(` crore)
FY 2022-23 
(` crore)
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
Total R&D 
Expenditure
2,751 
(1.1% of Turnover)
2,500 
(1.1% of Turnover)
TCS’ investments in research and innovation have resulted in 
solutions like Envirozone™, Clever Energy and IP2™. TCS has been 
using Clever Energy for the last several years to monitor and help 
reduce its energy consumption and is now commercially selling it 
and the other two solutions to clients to help them achieve their 
sustainability goals. 
Total Capex
2,650 
(1.1% of Turnover)
3,063 
(1.4% of Turnover)
Capital investments in infrastructure, including energy efficiency 
and other environmental initiatives.
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing42? (Yes/No)
	
	
Yes. TCS’ Sustainable Supply Chain policy and Green Procurement policy outlines its commitment to making its supply chain 
more responsible and sustainable. The policies are available on TCS website:
TCS Policy
Web link
Sustainable Supply Chain policy
https://on.tcs.com/SSCP
Green Procurement policy
https://on.tcs.com/GPP
	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
100% of the Company’s suppliers are covered in the responsible sourcing program.
	
	
As a part of engagement with TCS, all suppliers are expected to abide by the TCS’ Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC), Health, 
Safety and Environment (HSE) requirements for contractors and the applicable policies.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for 
(a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste43.
	
This is not relevant to TCS global operations as the Company is primarily an IT services organization providing software services 
and do not manufacture any physical products. 
	
As the Company provides software services through its office-based operations, it procures off-the-shelf items or products, which 
after their end of life are disposed off as per sustainable waste management practices. This is in line with the concept of circularity 
through waste minimization, segregation, reuse, recycling, and ecofriendly disposal according to regulatory requirements and 
industry best practices.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste 
collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, 
provide steps taken to address the same.
	
No. This is not applicable to TCS as the Company provides software services and do not have any physical products as part of its 
offerings to customers.
42	
GRI 308-1 
43	
GRI 306-2
