Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
119
Corporate Social Responsibility
The high unemployment rate among the youth, particularly 
from marginalized communities is a signiﬁcant issue in 
modern India. Their employment prospects and their ability 
to participate in the digital economy are impacted by 
challenges such as limited opportunities, deﬁcient 
communication skills, and a lack of technical expertise.
TCS’ Youth Employment Program (YEP) empowers the 
youth with its “Teach, Coach, Mentor and Place” model. 
Industry leaders and subject matter experts collaborate to 
deliver comprehensive training on business 
communication, aptitude, computer programming, and 
domain-speciﬁc skills.
The program facilitates a seamless transition between the 
academic and professional worlds and elevates the 
beneﬁciaries’ social and economic standing. By providing 
career guidance, mentoring, and oﬀering access to 
market-relevant certiﬁcations and real-time projects, YEP 
equips the youth to navigate opportunities in the Indian job 
market.
Since its inception, the program has: 
•
Provided youth from marginalized groups across the 
country access to opportunities. 
•
Enhanced the socio-economic status of more than 
1,76,000 youth and their families. 
•
 Created speciﬁc career paths for the youth in 
Hospitality, Banking, Retail, and IT domains, to name a 
few. 
•
Facilitated anytime and anywhere learning through 
the one-stop YEP portal. 
•
Advanced the reputation of, and provided visibility to, 
YEP partner institutions. 
•
Enabled continuous availability of a highly skilled 
talent pool for the industry.
The program currently runs in 24 states and union 
territories of India. In FY 2024, 19,900 students were 
trained, of which 49% were women and from groups 
qualiﬁed for aﬃrmative action programs. Over 2,845 
students have gained employment in the IT/ITES and other 
domains. 
Youth Employment Program (YEP)
Literacy as a Service (LaaS) Case Study
Lighting up the Musahar Community with literacy
LaaS’ modules include functional literacy (50-55 hours), 
ﬁnancial literacy (5-7 hours), and awareness of key citizen 
entitlements (3-4 hours). These are currently available in 
nine Indian, and three foreign languages.
Democratizing the literacy solution, TCS’ Each one 
Empowers one portal provides TCS, Tata Group employees, 
and their families, the opportunity to empower non-liter-
ates such as security guards, domestic workers, and 
gardeners in their local community.
Since its inception, LaaS has successfully paved the way to 
self-reliance for over 2.43 million learners and more than 
201,600 facilitators through literacy. In FY 2024, LaaS 
empowered 20,342 learners (~99% women) with function-
al literacy, ﬁnancial literacy, and awareness of key citizen 
entitlements.
The program’s transformational impact oﬀers beneﬁciaries 
a path to ﬁnancial independence, raises their self-esteem, 
and provides them the opportunity to be role models for 
their children. In addition, the program has also given 
neo-literates better access to government beneﬁt 
schemes, and ﬁnancial systems.
Tara Devi, from Bhaipurkhurd village, in Mirzapur, Uttar 
Pradesh, used to work at a brick kiln, for 14-16 hours 
every day, along with her husband and children. The 
owner of the brick kiln exploited them and paid them 
inadequately. Lacking basic education, Tara and her 
family were unable to accurately calculate their wages 
and were dependent on middlemen. TCS’ Literacy as a 
Service (LaaS), in partnership with Manav Sansadhan 
Evam Mahila Vikas Sansthan (MSEMVS), started a 
literacy program in Bhaipurkhurd. Tara Devi was 
rescued by MSEMVS, and she joined the TCS’ literacy 
center at Bhaipurkhurd.
Attending TCS’ LaaS sessions every day, Tara Devi 
learned how to read basic Hindi and do simple 
arithmetic. MSEMVS assisted Tara in setting up a small 
general shop. She is now able to operate her 
microenterprise independently and personally maintain 
her book of accounts. Realizing the transformative 
power of education, Tara Devi inspires her children to 
take their education seriously. 
I had never thought that I would be 
able to leave the work at the brick kiln 
and open my own shop. Thanks to TCS’ 
Literacy as a Service, I learned basic 
arithmetic, and today I can manage the 
accounts of my shop.  Now I send my 
children to school every day.
Tara Devi
Bhaipurkhurd village, Mirzapur, Uttar Pradesh
Trained: 19,900 | Under Training: 3,397 | Placed: 2,845
Vulnerable & marginalized: 49%
