Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
205
Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
	
The Group measures the lease liability at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement 
date of the lease. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be readily 
determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the Group uses incremental borrowing rate. For leases with reasonably 
similar characteristics, the Group, on a lease-by-lease basis, may adopt either the incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease 
or the incremental borrowing rate for the portfolio as a whole. The lease payments shall include fixed payments, variable lease 
payments, residual value guarantees, exercise price of a purchase option where the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that 
option and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising an option to terminate 
the lease. The lease liability is subsequently remeasured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease 
liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made and remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect any 
reassessment or lease modifications or to reflect revised in-substance fixed lease payments. The Group recognises the amount 
of the re-measurement of lease liability due to modification as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset and statement of profit 
and loss depending upon the nature of modification. Where the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero 
and there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability, the Group recognises any remaining amount of the re-
measurement in statement of profit and loss.
	
The Group has elected not to apply the requirements of Ind AS 116 - Leases to short-term leases of all assets that have a lease 
term of 12 months or less and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value. The lease payments associated with these 
leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
	
Group as a lessor
	
At the inception of the lease the Group classifies each of its leases as either an operating lease or a finance lease. The Group 
recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. In case of a 
finance lease, finance income is recognised over the lease term based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on 
the lessor’s net investment in the lease. When the Group is an intermediate lessor it accounts for its interests in the head lease 
and the sub-lease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with reference to the right-of-use asset arising from 
the head lease, not with reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to which the Group applies the 
exemption described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as an operating lease. 
	
If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group applies Ind AS 115 - Revenue from contracts with 
customers to allocate the consideration in the contract.
	
The details of the right-of-use assets held by the Group is as follows:
(` crore)
Additions for  
the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Net carrying  
amount as at  
March 31, 2024
Leasehold land
 - 
 929 
Buildings
 1,928 
 6,631 
Leasehold improvements
 - 
 25 
Computer equipment
 125 
 202 
Software licences
 - 
 60 
Vehicles
 18 
 34 
Office equipment
 1 
 3 
Furniture and fixtures
 2 
 2 
 2,074 
 7,886 
