Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
330
Sustainability Disclosures
 
 
 
3 | P a g e 
 
Intended use or purpose 
The ISI and our limited assurance report are intended for users who have reasonable knowledge of the 
BRSR attributes and GRI attributes, the reporting criteria and ISI and who have read the information in the 
ISI with reasonable diligence and understand that the ISI is prepared and assured at appropriate levels of 
materiality. 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
 
Responsibilities for Identified Sustainability Information (ISI) 
The management of the company are responsible for:  
• 
designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation of the Identified 
Sustainability Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;  
• 
selecting or developing suitable criteria for preparing the Identified Sustainability Information and 
appropriately referring to or describing the criteria; and 
• 
preparing the Identified Sustainability Information in accordance with the reporting criteria. 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the reporting process for the company’s ISI. 
 
Exclusions: 
 
Our assurance scope excludes the following and therefore we will not express a conclusion on the same: 
• 
Operations of the Company other than those mentioned in the “Scope of Assurance”. 
• 
Aspects of the BRSR and GRI attributes and the data/information (qualitative or quantitative) other than 
the ISI. 
• 
Data and information outside the defined reporting period i.e., 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024. 
• 
The statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim, or future 
intentions provided by the Company.  
 
Inherent limitations 
The preparation of the company’s sustainability information requires the management to establish or 
interpret the criteria, make determinations about the relevancy of information to be included, and make 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported information. 
Measurement of certain amounts and BRSR and GRI attributes, some of which are estimates, is subject to 
substantial inherent measurement uncertainty, for example GHG emissions, water footprint, energy 
footprint. Obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence to support our opinion/conclusion does not reduce the 
uncertainty in the amounts and metrics.  
