73
Management Discussion and Analysis
Few notable programs:  
•	
#IamGenAIReady – Intense focus on building GenAI 
capabilities with a goal to make “Every TCSer GenAI ready 
by 2025”. TCS exceeded its initial targets and now has one 
of the world’s largest AI/ML and GenAI Ready workforce 
across the world.  
•	
Building a Strong Engineering Culture: 
	
o	
Software Engineering - Reinforcing clean coding and 
assuring best engineering practices.  
	
o	
Secuware training program to create deep 
understanding of secure coding and configuration 
practice across Application, Network, Cloud and Data 
Systems.
•	
TCS Elevate: TCS’ pioneering program linking learning 
to career growth and reward covered over 423,000 
employees.  More than 35,200 employees were identified 
as high talent and saw an increase in their compensation.
•	
TCS Contextual Masters:  TCS’ program to identify tenured 
employees with contextual knowledge of the customer’s 
business and technology landscape, continues to expand 
with over 73,000 Contextual Masters who are being 
groomed to be next generation transformation leaders.
Key Metrics:  
•	
More than 147,000 external certificates were acquired in 
FY 2024.
•	
TCS continued its focus on leveraging internal talent 
through upskilling and cross skilling for growth 
opportunities. In FY 2024, 33% of job requirements were 
fulfilled through grooming its internal talent. 
Talent Transformation
TCS is building a culture of mentoring and promoting it through 
systemic intervention programs, and the company now has over 
36,000 mentors.
TCS has multiple initiatives to help employees achieve career 
growth and aspirations.  
•	
iConnect – Collaboration tool designed to help employees 
reach out to senior mentors for guidance on career paths. 
More than 103,000 iConnect sessions were initiated.  
•	
Xcelerate - TCS’ in-house career guidance system, which 
guides TCSers to share their career aspirations. The portal 
saw more than 462,000 aspirations recorded in FY 2024, 
and over 26,300 have met their aspirational roles.
•	
Over 135,000 TCSers initiated their 360-degree inclusive 
feedback process, with team members, peers and 
managers being nominated as participants to give feedback 
on their skills and attributes. This engagement provides 
strong impetus toward overall talent transformation at each 
individual level.
Competitive Compensation
Compensation levels are merit based, determined by 
qualification, experience levels, special skills if any, and individual 
performance. Compensation structures are driven by prevailing 
practices in each country that TCS operates in. The merit 
based, democratized, transparent talent framework – Elevate, 
is designed to establish a tighter linkage between learning, 
skill development, career, and reward. The company regularly 
benchmarks its compensation plans and benefits with the 
market to ensure competitiveness. 
Across the enterprise, remuneration is the same for men and 
women working full-time, in the same grade, in the same role, 
and at the same location. 
Talent Engagement 
In FY 2024, focus was on value-driven, and positive wellbeing 
of the employees to increase pride and belongingness. The 
key initiatives driven for impact were manager sensitization 
workshops for culture assimilation, joiners’ talent integration, 
career growth and total wellbeing of the employees.  
With TCS encouraging 100% employees returning to work, 
various programs are being run to enable higher levels of 
engagement. Employees were engaged through town halls and 
project confluences with an emphasis on Living my Values, 
Build my Career and Lifelong Learning. The company enabled 
more than 33,000 one-on-one mentoring sessions and over 
255,000 one-on-one HR career conversations.
Family Day: The Family Day Fiesta is a well-thought-out 
endeavor to strengthen bonds, instill pride, and propagate 
the #OneTCS culture. The event provides an open invitation 
for family members to step into TCS offices, allowing them to 
experience the work environment firsthand. It was celebrated 
across 14 India locations, with over 300,000 people taking part 
with great enthusiasm. 
Other engagement and collaboration platforms in TCS include: 
•	
Knome, KnowMax, GEMS: Platforms for social 
collaboration within the organization, learning, sharing and 
for rewards and recognition.
•	
Safety First: Initiative focused on employee safety and 
security. 
•	
TCS Cares: Aims to build an emotionally strong and 
mentally resilient workforce through sensitization, easy 
access to self-help and counselling. More than 24,000 
counselling sessions were availed globally and over 40,000 
employees attended TCS Cares webinars globally.
•	
Fit4life: Builds a fraternity of health and fitness conscious 
employees and creates a culture of fitness.
	
o	
Health & Wellbeing: 140,000 active users contributed 
total 50 million+ kms. 
	
o	
Yoga: Over 45,000 employees took part in practicing 
Yoga.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
