78
Management Discussion and Analysis
8	
 IMF World Economic Outlook Update, April 2024 
9	
 Gartner
Industry Vertical
Segment 
Revenue 
FY 2024 
(FY 2023) 
` crore
YoY 
Revenue 
Growth 
%
Key Demand Drivers7
Segment 
Margin 
FY 2024 
(FY 2023) 
%
Manufacturing
23,491
(21,236)
10.6 •	
Sustainable fuels, sustainable transportation, sustainable materials, 
circular economy.
•	
Connected Autonomous Vehicles, Advanced Driver Assistance Systems.
•	
Resilient supply chain, parts track and trace, D2C.
•	
Vertical farming, precision agriculture. 
•	
Battery technology, Electric vehicles.
•	
Connected assets and smart plants, factory twin, plant safety and 
modernization, energy efficiency and decarbonization, emission 
tracking and monitoring.
•	
GenAI as an enabler across the value chain, specifically in the areas 
such as sales cycles, product design and development. 
30.9
(27.5)
Others
20,981
(18,331)
14.5 •	
Renewable integrations in the grid and associated system changes.
•	
Asset performance management.
•	
Accommodate the next generation of field workers.
22.3
(21.1)
Business Outlook
Global growth estimated at 3.2 percent in 2023 is projected to 
continue at the same pace in 2024 and 20258. With disinflation 
and steady growth, the likelihood of a hard landing seems to 
have receded, and risks to global growth seem broadly balanced. 
The uncertainty seen through last year is expected to persist 
for the next few quarters. Capex investments are projected to 
remain subdued as enterprises focus on maximizing returns 
from existing investments, resulting in muted spending on 
infrastructure, software, and services. Cessation of hostilities 
and successful control of inflation can be the triggers for 
recovery which will stimulate global demand. This, in turn, 
should prompt customers to resume spending on discretionary 
products and services.
Despite challenges, spending on IT services has been resilient so far. 
Cloud technologies have become the mainstay of an enterprise’s 
agenda and key to achieving sustainable growth. As a unifying 
digital hub that brings multiple other technologies to life, cloud has 
accelerated digital and business transformation over the last fiscal. 
The higher level of uncertainty in the business environment has 
made clients more receptive to proactive proposals around IT and 
business operating model transformations that can not only deliver 
significant efficiencies but also help them become more agile and 
resilient. All this has resulted in a record order book for FY 2024, at 
US$42.7 billion. Global IT Spending is expected to increase 8% in 
20249, with enterprises emphasizing on organizational efficiency 
and optimization. 
Last year saw GenAI seemingly at the heart of every strategic 
discussion. Fueled by cloud, this combination of AI capabilities 
is creating new possibilities and new opportunities. Firms will 
continue to invest heavily in technology to enhance efficiency, 
security, and customer experience. Rise in spend is expected in 
cloud computing, ecosystem play and GenAI leading to better 
resilience and new customer value creation. Cybersecurity 
will remain a top priority, driving demand for advanced threat 
detection and prevention solutions. 
All the above factors provide growth visibility over the medium 
to long term amid near-term uncertainty. If the delayed 
decision-making and cash conservation seen in some segments 
through FY 2024 continues into the next fiscal year, it could lead 
to a moderation in growth in FY 2025.
Key demand drivers expected to power the company’s growth in 
FY 2025 include:
•	
Technology transformation:  IT infrastructure 
modernization, cloud enablement, application and data 
estate modernization, cloud migration and transformation; 
data centre and collocated data support; SaaS adoption; 
digital workplace; digital twins; cyber security; ERP 
modernization; low-code no-code; 5G/Edge and AI 
adoption. 
•	
Business Transformation: Customer experience 
transformation using personalization, omnichannel 
implementation, immersive experiences using XR/
Metaverse; product and business model innovation; supply 
chain modernization; M&A integration / divestitures; 
sustainability, new business model enablement, by 
harnessing GenAI.
•	
Operations: Plain vanilla outsourcing, vendor consolidation 
and multi-services deals; AI/ML-led transformation of IT 
/ business operations for greater resilience and leaner 
operating models; managed services models and real time 
operation visibility. 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
