Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
200
Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
	
Market risk
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. Such changes in the values of financial instruments may result from changes in the foreign currency exchange rates, 
interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market changes. The Group’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of foreign 
currency exchange rate risk.
	
•	
Foreign currency exchange rate risk
	
	
The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential impact on the consolidated statement of profit and 
loss and other comprehensive income and equity, where any transaction references more than one currency or where 
assets / liabilities are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective entities. Considering 
the countries and economic environment in which the Group operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from 
fluctuations in exchange rates in those countries. 
	
	
The Group, as per its risk management policy, uses derivative instruments primarily to hedge foreign exchange. Further, any 
movement in the functional currencies of the various operations of the Group against major foreign currencies may impact 
the Group’s revenue in international business.
	
	
The Group evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. It 
hedges a part of these risks by using derivative financial instruments in line with its risk management policies.
	
	
The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated by aggregation of the net foreign exchange rate exposure and a 
simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rates shift of all the currencies by 10% against the respective functional currencies of 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries.
	
	
The following analysis has been worked out based on the net exposures for each of the subsidiaries and 
	
	
Tata Consultancy Services Limited as of the date of balance sheet which could affect the statement of profit and loss and 
other comprehensive income and equity. Further the exposure as indicated below is mitigated by some of the derivative 
contracts entered into by the Group as disclosed in note 8(k).
	
	
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2024:
(` crore)
USD
EUR
GBP
Others
Net financial assets
 2,753 
 518 
 161 
 3,508 
Net financial liabilities
 (7,129)
 (253)
 (2,185)
 (753)
	
	
10% appreciation / depreciation of the respective functional currency of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its 
subsidiaries with respect to various foreign currencies would result in increase / decrease in the Group’s profit before taxes 
by approximately `338 crore for the year ended March 31, 2024.
	
	
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2023:
(` crore)
USD
EUR
GBP
Others
Net financial assets
 3,869 
 262 
 90 
 2,136 
Net financial liabilities
 (11,021)
 (657)
 (1,536)
 (270)
	
	
10% appreciation / depreciation of the respective functional currency of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its 
subsidiaries with respect to various foreign currencies would result in increase / decrease in the Group’s profit before taxes 
by approximately `713 crore for the year ended March 31, 2023.
	
•	
Interest rate risk
	
	
The Group’s investments are primarily in fixed rate interest bearing investments. Hence, the Group is not significantly 
exposed to interest rate risk.
