Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
283
Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
	
The Company’s contracts with customers could include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. The 
Company assesses the products / services promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance obligations in the contract. 
Identification of distinct performance obligation involves judgement to determine the deliverables and the ability of the customer 
to benefit independently from such deliverables.
	
Judgement is also required to determine the transaction price for the contract and to ascribe the transaction price to each 
distinct performance obligation. The transaction price could be either a fixed amount of customer consideration or variable 
consideration with elements such as volume discounts, service level credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and 
incentives. The transaction price is also adjusted for the effects of the time value of money if the contract includes a significant 
financing component. Any consideration payable to the customer is adjusted to the transaction price, unless it is a payment for 
a distinct product or service from the customer. The estimated amount of variable consideration is adjusted in the transaction 
price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will 
not occur and is reassessed at the end of each reporting period. The Company allocates the elements of variable considerations 
to all the performance obligations of the contract unless there is observable evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct 
performance obligations.
	
The Company exercises judgement in determining whether the performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time or over a 
period of time. The Company considers indicators such as how customer consumes benefits as services are rendered or who 
controls the asset as it is being created or existence of enforceable right to payment for performance to date and alternate use of 
such product or service, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, etc.
	
Revenue from subsidiaries is recognised based on transaction price which is at arm’s length.
	
Contract fulfilment costs are generally expensed as incurred except for certain software licence costs which meet the criteria for 
capitalisation. Such costs are amortised over the contractual period or useful life of licence, whichever is less. The assessment of 
this criteria requires the application of judgement, in particular when considering if costs generate or enhance resources to be 
used to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to be recovered.
	
Contract assets are recognised when there are excess of revenues earned over billings on contracts. Contract assets are classified 
as unbilled receivables (only act of invoicing is pending) when there is unconditional right to receive cash, and only passage of 
time is required, as per contractual terms.
	
Unearned and deferred revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised when there are billings in excess of revenues.
	
The billing schedules agreed with customers include periodic performance based payments and / or milestone based progress 
payments. Invoices are payable within contractually agreed credit period.
	
In accordance with Ind AS 37, the Company recognises an onerous contract provision when the unavoidable costs of meeting the 
obligations under a contract exceed the economic benefits to be received.
	
Contracts are subject to modification to account for changes in contract specification and requirements. The Company reviews 
modification to contract in conjunction with the original contract, basis which the transaction price could be allocated to a new 
performance obligation, or transaction price of an existing obligation could undergo a change. In the event transaction price is 
revised for existing obligation, a cumulative adjustment is accounted for.
	
The Company disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by nature of services, industry verticals and geography.
	
Revenue disaggregation by nature of services is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended  
March 31, 2024
Year ended  
March 31, 2023
Consultancy services
2,00,054
1,88,748
Sale of equipment and software licences
 2,305 
 1,606 
2,02,359
1,90,354
