Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
189
Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
	
The Group has made an irrevocable election to present 
subsequent changes in the fair value of equity investments 
not held for trading in other comprehensive income.
	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
	
Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit 
or loss unless they are measured at amortised cost or at 
fair value through other comprehensive income on initial 
recognition. The transaction costs directly attributable 
to the acquisition of financial assets and liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss are immediately recognised in 
statement of profit and loss. 
	
Financial liabilities
	
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method.
	
Equity instruments
	
An equity instrument is a contract that evidences residual 
interest in the assets of the company after deducting all of 
its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Group are 
recognised at the proceeds received net of direct issue cost.
	
Derivative accounting
	
•	
Instruments in hedging relationship
	
	
The Group designates certain foreign exchange 
forward, currency options and futures contracts as 
hedge instruments in respect of foreign exchange risks. 
These hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
	
	
The Group uses hedging instruments that are 
governed by the financial risk management policy as 
approved by the Risk Management Committee. The 
policy provides principles on the use of such financial 
derivatives consistent with the risk management 
strategy of the company and its subsidiaries. While 
determining the appropriate hedge ratio, the Group 
takes into consideration the prevailing macro-
economic conditions, the availability and liquidity of 
the hedging instruments, tolerance levels for hedge 
ineffectiveness and the costs of hedging. The hedging 
activities are reviewed by the Risk Management 
Committee every quarter and future course of action 
is determined.
	
	
The hedge instruments are designated and 
documented as hedges at the inception of the 
contract. The Group determines the existence of 
an economic relationship between the hedging 
instrument and hedged item based on the currency, 
amount and timing of their respective cash flows. 
The effectiveness of hedge instruments to reduce 
the risk associated with the exposure being hedged 
is assessed and measured at inception and on an 
ongoing basis. If the hedged future cash flows are no 
longer expected to occur, then the amounts that have 
been accumulated in other equity are immediately 
reclassified in net foreign exchange gains in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
The effective portion of change in the fair value of the 
designated hedging instrument is recognised in the 
other comprehensive income and accumulated under 
the heading cash flow hedging reserve.
	
	
The Group separates the intrinsic value and time value 
of an option and designates as hedging instruments 
only the change in intrinsic value of the option. 
The change in fair value of the intrinsic value and 
time value of an option is recognised in the other 
comprehensive income and accounted as a separate 
component of equity. Such amounts are reclassified 
into the statement of profit and loss when the related 
hedged items affect profit and loss.
	
	
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain or 
loss recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity till that time remains and is 
recognised in statement of profit and loss when the 
forecasted transaction ultimately affects profit and 
loss. Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the 
statement of profit and loss when the hedge becomes 
ineffective.
	
•	
Instruments not in hedging relationship
	
	
The Group enters into contracts that are effective 
as hedges from an economic perspective, but they 
do not qualify for hedge accounting. The change in 
the fair value of such instrument is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
Impairment of financial assets (other than at fair value)
	
The Group assesses at each date of balance sheet whether 
a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. 
Ind AS 109 requires expected credit losses to be measured 
through a loss allowance. The Group recognises lifetime 
expected losses for all contract assets and / or all trade 
receivables that do not constitute a financing transaction. 
In determining the allowance for expected credit losses, 
the Group has used a practical expedient by computing 
the expected credit loss allowance for trade receivables 
based on a provision matrix. The provision matrix takes into 
account historical credit loss experience and is adjusted 
for forward looking information. The expected credit loss 
allowance is based on the ageing of the receivables that 
are due and allowance rates used in the provision matrix. 
For all other financial assets, expected credit losses are 
measured at an amount equal to the 12-months expected 
credit losses or at an amount equal to the life time 
expected credit losses if the credit risk on the financial 
asset has increased significantly since initial recognition.
