Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
93
CorporateGovernanceReport
I.	
Company’s Philosophy on Corporate Governance
 	
Effective corporate governance practices constitute 
the strong foundation on which successful commercial 
enterprises are built to last. The Company’s philosophy on 
corporate governance oversees business strategies and 
ensures fiscal accountability, ethical corporate behaviour 
and fairness to all stakeholders comprising employees, 
investors, customers, regulators, suppliers and the 
society at large. Strong leadership and effective corporate 
governance practices have been the Company’s hallmark 
inherited from the Tata culture and ethos.
 	
The Company follows the Tata Group philosophy of building 
sustainable businesses that are rooted in the community 
and demonstrate care for the environment. Being a 
part of the Tata Group, which epitomizes sustainability, 
the Company has inherited a strong legacy of fair and 
transparent ethical governance, as embodied in the 
Tata Code of Conduct (“TCoC”).
 	
The Company has adopted the TCoC for its employees 
including the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director 
and the Executive Directors. In addition, the Company has 
adopted a Code of Conduct for its non-executive directors 
which includes Code of Conduct for Independent Directors 
that suitably incorporates the duties of independent 
directors as laid down in the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act”).
 	
The Company’s corporate governance philosophy has been 
further strengthened through the Tata Business Excellence 
Model, the TCS Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider 
Trading and the Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices 
(“Insider Trading Code”). The Company has in place an 
Information Security Policy that ensures proper utilization 
of IT resources.
 	
The Company is in compliance with the requirements 
stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27 read with Schedule 
V and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub-regulation (2) 
of Regulation 46 of Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), as 
applicable, with regard to corporate governance.
 	
The details of TCS’ board structure and the various 
committees that constitute the governance structure1 of 
the organization are covered in detail in this report.
 	
The various material aspects of corporate governance and 
TCS’ approach to them are discussed in the table below:
Corporate Governance Report
Material Topic
TCS’ Approach
Board effectiveness, 
independence and protection 
of minority Shareholders’ 
interests
Board effectiveness is enhanced by setting a high bar in selecting the right mix of individuals to 
serve on the Board, with the right qualifications, expertise and experience, who can collectively 
serve the best interests of all stakeholders, maintain board and management accountability 
and drive corporate ethics, values and sustainability. Profiles of Board of Directors are available 
at https://www.tcs.com/who-we-are/leadership.
For greater diversity of opinions and perspectives within the Board, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee2 has fostered diversity in terms of backgrounds, areas of expertise 
and:
1 GRI 2-9
2 GRI 2-10
