88
Management Discussion and Analysis
Internal Financial Control Systems and their Adequacy
TCS has aligned its systems of internal financial control in 
line with globally accepted risk-based framework issued by 
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the 
Treadway Commission.  This framework of internal financial 
controls meets the requirement of the Companies Act 2013. The 
Internal Control – Integrated Framework (the 2013 framework) 
is intended to increase transparency and accountability in an 
organization’s process of designing and implementing a system 
of internal control. The framework requires a company to 
identify and analyze risks and manage appropriate responses. 
The company has successfully laid down the framework and 
ensured its effectiveness. 
TCS’ internal controls are commensurate with its size and the 
nature of its operations. These have been designed to provide 
reasonable assurance with regard to recording and providing 
reliable financial and operational information, complying with 
applicable statutes, safeguarding assets from unauthorized use, 
executing transactions with proper authorization and ensuring 
compliance with corporate policies. TCS has a well-defined 
delegation of power with authority limits commensurate 
with the responsibilities for approving engagements with all 
stakeholders that commits organizational resources and results 
in creation of assets and liabilities, income and expenditure. 
TCS uses a state-of-the-art enterprise resource planning (ERP) 
system that connects all parts of the organization, to record data 
for accounting, consolidation and management information 
purposes. It has continued its efforts to align all its processes 
and controls with global best practices.
TCS management assessed the effectiveness of the company’s 
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Regulation 
17 of SEBI LODR Regulations 2015) as of March 31, 2024. 
B S R & Co. LLP, the statutory auditors of TCS, have audited the 
financial statements included in this annual report and have 
issued an attestation report on the company’s internal control 
over financial reporting (as defined in section 143 of Companies 
Act 2013).
TCS has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers Services LLP to 
oversee and carry out an internal audit of its activities. Design 
and operating effectiveness of process controls on financial 
transactions is also audited by an independent in-house internal 
audit team.  The audit is based on an internal audit plan, which 
is reviewed each year in consultation with the statutory auditors 
and approved by the audit committee. In line with international 
practice, the conduct of internal audit is oriented towards the 
review of internal controls and risks in the company’s operations 
such as software delivery, accounting and finance, procurement, 
employee engagement, travel, insurance, IT processes, including 
the subsidiaries and foreign branches.
TCS also undergoes periodic audit by specialized third party 
consultants and professionals for business specific compliances 
such as quality management, service management, information 
security, etc. The audit committee reviews reports submitted 
by the management and audit reports submitted by internal 
auditors and statutory auditors. Suggestions for improvement 
are considered and the audit committee follows up on corrective 
action. The audit committee also meets TCS’ statutory auditors 
to ascertain, inter alia, their views on the adequacy of internal 
control systems and keeps the board of directors informed of its 
major observations periodically.
Based on its evaluation (as defined in section 177 of Companies 
Act 2013 and Regulation 18 of SEBI LODR Regulations 2015), 
TCS’ audit committee has concluded that, as of March 31, 2024, 
the company’s internal financial controls were adequate and 
operating effectively.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
