Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
143
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners 61:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
TCS’ supply chain sustainability requirements are integrated with online procurement platform with 
the ‘Sourcing module’ and ‘Risk module’. TCS’ HSE policies, procedures, guidelines, and Supplier 
Code of Conduct (SCoC) are included in sourcing module in RFP template for digital acceptance by 
all suppliers / vendors who are considered for evaluation.
Some critical suppliers such as regulated waste disposal services (e-waste, hazardous waste, 
battery wastes), bottled water suppliers, food suppliers for cafeteria and similar suppliers undergo 
legal compliance due diligence and site inspection before initiating the negotiation process. The 
procurement team ensures that SCoC acceptance is done by vendors and all compliances are in 
place for which a tracking system is maintained.
TCS also conducts periodic audits/review of processes/documents of on-boarded vendors who 
have contractual agreement. 
Working Conditions
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of 
health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners 61.
	
TCS conducts regular H&S audits for high-risk vendors such as caterers, transport vendors, and bottled water vendors. Any 
findings during these audits are tracked to closure. For example, if any vehicle provided by a transport vendor is found non-
compliant to the TCS safety standards and guidelines, it is immediately removed from the roster.
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity 62.
	
TCS engages with a broad spectrum of stakeholders, to deepen its insights into their needs and expectations, and to develop 
sustainable strategies for the short, medium and long term. Stakeholder engagement also helps to manage risks and 
opportunities in business operations. The key stakeholders identified in consultation with the company’s management are: 
customers, employees, shareholders, academic institutions, staffing firms, other suppliers, technology partners and collaborators, 
industry bodies, governments, NGOs, local communities, regulators and society at large.
	
Some other stakeholders that TCS closely engages with – such as industry analysts, equity analysts, and the news media are 
proxies for other named stakeholders i.e. customers, shareholders, and society at large, respectively.
	
Stakeholder interactions might be structured (e.g. surveys, account statements) or unstructured (town halls, 1x1 or group 
meetings). Based on mutual convenience and need, the engagement may be scheduled as needed, or pre-scheduled on a 
periodic basis, or ongoing (e.g. website, social media).
61	
GRI 414-2 
62	
GRI 2-29
