Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
91
Awards and Accolades
Awards and Accolades
•	
Featured by FORTUNE Magazine as one of the World’s 
Most Admired Companies based on a survey of more than 
3,700 business executives, boards of directors and financial 
analysts.
•	
Ranked second in the 2024 Global 500 IT services ranking 
by Brand Finance with a brand value of US$19.2 billion, 
improved brand value by US$2 billion in one year, the 
highest value growth across the global IT Services Industry.
•	
Ranked first in Customer Satisfaction in Europe & UK by 
Whitelane Research based on research of over 800 IT 
companies in UK alone, ranked first in Spain for Customer 
Satisfaction in Service Delivery.
•	
Recognized as the most valuable Indian brand by 
Interbrand, topping the 50 Most Valuable Indian 
Brands 2023 list.
•	
Ranked among America’s Best Management 
Consulting Firm in 2024 by Forbes Magazine, based on 
recommendations from 1,100 partners and executives at 
management consulting firms.
•	
Awarded Global Top Employer 2024, one of the 16 
companies worldwide, by the Top Employers Institute in 
32 countries and regions, including Europe, the UK, the 
Middle East, North America, Latin America, and South-East 
Asia.
•	
Won five awards at Microsoft’s 2023 Partner of the Year 
Awards event. In the global category, TCS won the MVP 
Industry Solutions Global Systems Integrator (GSI) award. 
TCS also won three US Partner of the Year awards in the 
categories Global Systems Integrator, Industrials and 
Manufacturing, and Dynamics 365 Sales and Marketing. 
Additionally, TCS was named the Malaysia Customer 
Success Partner of the Year.
•	
Received the Global award Innovator Partner of the 
Year at Dell Tech World 2023, Las Vegas.
•	
Won three Google Cloud Partner of the Year Awards 
2023 in the following categories: Global Talent 
Development Partner of the Year, Industry Solution 
Services Partner of the Year-Financial Services & 
Insurance, and Retail & Consumer Packaged Goods.
