Tata Consultancy Services is an IT services, consulting and 
business solutions organization that has been partnering with 
many of the world’s largest businesses in their transformation 
journeys for over 56 years. Its consulting-led, cognitive powered, 
portfolio of business, technology and engineering services and 
solutions is delivered through its unique Location Independent 
Agile™ delivery model, recognized as a benchmark of excellence 
in software development.
A part of the Tata group, India’s largest multinational business 
group, TCS has over 601,000 of the world’s best-trained 
consultants in 54 countries. The company generated 
consolidated revenues of US$29.1 billion in the fiscal year ended 
March 31, 2024, and is listed on the BSE and the NSE in India. 
TCS’ proactive stance on climate change and award-winning 
work with communities across the world have earned it a 
place in leading sustainability indices such as the MSCI Global 
Sustainability Index and the FTSE4Good Emerging Index. For 
more information, visit www.tcs.com
About TCS
Transforming Industries
The TCS’ FY 2023-24 (FY 2024) Integrated Annual Report delves 
into the capability of technological innovations and their impact 
on business models. Technology is increasingly an enabler in 
what enterprises can do to adapt and thrive in this new era. 
Businesses are relying on technologies to help improve their 
competitive advantage, drive strategy and growth. From 
Banking, Retail and Manufacturing to Healthcare and Utilities, 
technology is Transforming Industries in the way they operate, 
and enhance their customer and employee experience.
TCS, with its full services capability and industry specific 
contextual knowledge, has always remained relevant to clients 
and stayed close to them in the past technology cycles. The 
synergistic relationship between Cloud and AI/GenAI technology, 
is ushering in a significant shift in how industries approach 
innovation and efficiency. With over half of the workforce 
trained in AI/ML and Gen AI, TCS will continue to be clients’ 
trusted transformation partner.
Recent Annual Report Themes
FY 2023
Innovate, 
Adapt, Thrive
Innovating for
Greater Futures
FY 2022
Building on Belief
FY 2021
FY 2020
Purpose-driven.
Resilient. Adaptable
Growth and 
Transformation with 
Business 4.0TM
FY 2019
