Cash Flow
Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents.
Cash Flow from 
Operating Activities
Primarily derived from the principal revenue producing activities. Therefore, they generally result from the 
transactions and other events that enter into the determination of profit or loss. 
CBO
See Cognitive Business Operations
CC
See Constant Currency
Chatbots
Computer programs designed to simulate conversation with human users, especially over the internet. They are 
typically used in dialog systems for various practical purposes like customer service or information acquisition.
Cloud
See Cloud Computing
Cloud Computing
The delivery of easily provisionable computing resources – servers, storage, databases, networking, software, 
analytics and more – over the internet, consumed on a pay-as-you-go basis.
Cloud Native
A cloud native application consists of discrete, reusable components known as microservices that are designed to 
integrate into any cloud environment.
CMT
Acronym for Communication, Media and Technology
CMMI-SVC
Acronym for Capability Maturity Model® Integration For Services
Cognitive 
Automation
The use of AI and machine learning to automate relatively more complex tasks that require reasoning capability 
and contextual awareness. TCS’ ignio™ a leading cognitive automation software product in the market today.
Cognitive Business 
Operations (CBO)
An integrated offering where TCS takes responsibility for the outcome of an entire slice of the customers’ 
operations including the business processes and the underlying IT infrastructure, and uses cognitive automation 
to transform that operational stack.
Cognitive 
Computing
See Artificial Intelligence
COIN
See Co-Innovation Network 
Co-Innovation 
Network
This is an extended, global innovation ecosystem curated by TCS, to harness the innovation efforts of start-ups 
and academia, and incorporate them into transformational solutions built by TCS for its customers.
Compounded 
Annual Growth 
Rate (CAGR)
The annual growth rate between any two points in time, assuming that it has been compounding during that 
period.
Connected Clinical 
Trials (CCT) 
Platform
Part of the TCS ADD suite, CCT is an innovative software-as-a-service platform that enables life sciences 
companies to significantly transform patient engagement in clinical trials and improve adherence to protocols, as 
well as the efficiency and accountability of clinical trials. 
Constant Currency
The basis for restating the current period’s metric at exchange rates applicable for the reference period and 
reporting growth over the reference period. 
Contextual 
Knowledge
This is tacit knowledge pertaining to, and specific to, the granular nuances of a customer’s business and IT 
landscape, acquired on the job over a period of time. TCS teams use their contextual knowledge to design 
technology solutions that are uniquely tailored for that customer, and therefore, a potential source of competitive 
differentiation.
Conversational AI
Conversational artificial intelligence (AI) refers to technologies, like chatbots or virtual agents, which users can 
talk to. They use large volumes of data, machine learning, and natural language processing to help imitate human 
interactions, recognizing speech and text inputs and translating their meanings across various languages.
Core Banking 
System
A back-end system that processes daily banking transactions and posts updates to accounts and other financial 
records; typically includes deposit, loan and credit processing capabilities, with interfaces to general ledger 
systems and reporting tools.
Core 
Transformation
Modernization initiatives that target the one or more elements of the organization’s operations stack consisting 
of business processes, software systems and underlying infrastructure, usually to enable greater agility, scalability, 
resilience and a superior customer experience. These are typically large in scale and scope, and entail the 
integrated delivery of multiple capabilities.
 CO2e
Acronym for “Carbon dioxide equivalent”. It is a standard unit for accounting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
from carbon dioxide or another greenhouse gases, such as SOX, NOX, methane, etc.
CPG
Acronym for Consumer Packaged Goods
Cyber Security
Technologies, processes and practices designed to protect networks, computers, programs and data from attack, 
damage or unauthorized access. 
Data Mining
Data mining is the practice of obtaining valuable information from data sets. The data can be in any form, such as 
text, audio, or video data.
Data mining aims to find actionable insights in the data that can improve business decisions or solve problems. 
For instance, data mining can discover customer buying patterns and target ads towards people who would likely 
purchase a product.
Days’ Sales 
Outstanding (DSO)
A popular way of depicting the Trade Receivable relative to the company’s Revenue. 
DSO = Trade Receivable * 365 / LTM Revenue
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
309
Glossary
