72
Management Discussion and Analysis
Opportunity / Threat
TCS Approach
Outcomes
Strategic technology 
investments
•	
 Set up the AI.Cloud unit bringing both Cloud and AI 
capabilities together to drive transformations for the 
customer under a ‘Responsible AI’ framework; invested 
in Intrapreneurial teams to discover the art of the 
possible.
•	
Continued investment in skill building, certifications, 
credentials, IP and accelerators.
•	
Made available TCS products and solutions on public 
clouds.
•	
Strong growth in cloud migration and 
transformation revenues. 
•	
Working on 250+ PoCs and PoVs in 
Assist and Augment use cases, few 
programs moving into production.
•	
Top tier partner to each of the 
hyperscalers.
•	
Preferred partner to clients seeking to 
use cloud native capabilities to power 
their business transformation.
•	
Over half of the workforce trained in AI/
ML and GenAI technologies.
Greater acceptance of 
as-a-Service platforms 
•	
Strengthened alliances and launched new offerings 
around the popular and new SaaS products.
•	
Helped ISV* clients upgrade their products to launch 
new SaaS versions.
•	
Partnering with product manufacturers to help launch 
innovative as-a-Service offerings using TCS Bring Life to 
Things IoT framework. 
TCS IP:
•	
Promoted SaaS versions of in-house product portfolio, 
now available on hyperscaler platforms.
•	
Used IP portfolio to launch new platforms that bundle IP 
and shared services on the cloud.
•	
Outperformance and differentiated 
growth compared to peers.
•	
Stronger win-win partnerships.
•	
Expansion of addressable market.
•	
Strong growth in SaaS sales.
•	
Platforms drive stickier relationships, 
with long term revenue visibility.
* Independent Software Vendor
Talent Management
TCS is a talent and innovation led organization that aims to 
attract, develop, motivate, and retain diverse talent, which is 
critical for its competitive differentiation and continued success. 
TCS strives to create a vibrant workplace and an engaged 
workforce by encouraging four behaviors: follow your passion, 
stay hungry, commit to lifelong learning, and thrive together.
In FY 2024, the total employee base of TCS was 601,546, 
representing 152 nationalities, with 35.6% women in the 
workforce. 
Talent Acquisition
The company remains the preferred employer and one of the 
largest job creators in IT services in several major markets, 
for both freshers and lateral hires. FY 2024 has been yet 
another vibrant year for Talent Acquisition with strong business 
partnerships to meet talent requirements proactively, at scale 
and on-demand. 
Key Achievements: 
•	
Hiring during the year: During the year, the company’s 
hiring strategy included a mix of physical campus visits, 
candidates hired through its National Qualifier Test (NQT) 
and focused hiring from top B-schools. TCS continues with 
internship and placement offers as part of the Strategic 
Leadership Program.
•	
TCS Academic Interface Program (AIP) continued to 
engage with faculty and students through focus group 
connections, workshops, faculty development programs 
and other campus outreach activities. In FY 2024, TCS 
engaged with over 194,000 students and about 17,500 
faculty members in nearly 1,200 partner academic 
institutes across the world. More than 1,500 interns were 
engaged during the year. 
•	
TCS Sangam: “Meeting of Minds” is TCS’ flagship event 
celebrating industry -academia collaboration.  Sangam 2024 
saw participation from more than 80 leading academicians 
including distinguished Vice Chancellors and Directors 
representing a diverse group of institutions including IITs, 
NITs, IIMs, and premium institutions. 
Talent Development
Building a future-ready workforce is one of the top priorities 
for Talent Development. In FY 2024 several key initiatives were 
launched to inculcate a strong engineering culture among the 
company’s employees and build deeper skills in market relevant 
technologies and create an AI ready workforce.  
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
