Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
120
Corporate Social Responsibility
Puja Bhairu Kamble, is from Solapur. After her 
graduation, she embarked on her dream to join the 
police force. However, she failed the examinations and 
was left disappointed, her dreams shattered.
Her father who was a security guard at Tata Consultancy 
Services, informed her about a program designed to 
assist recent graduates ﬁnd employment. Puja was 
advised to send her resume to see if she qualiﬁed for the 
training. Soon after, she received an invitation to the 
"Youth Employment Programme" (YEP) orientation. 
There she met other enthusiastic young individuals who 
shared similar career dreams.
YEP helped enhance her analytical, numerical, and 
communication skills. Throughout the training, she also 
acquired fundamental skills such as time management, 
work-life balance, and corporate etiquette. She learned 
the signiﬁcance of creating an outstanding resume and 
received guidance on conduct during interviews.
Upon completing the training, she appeared for the TCS 
recruitment drive and was selected for a position at 
TCS's Vikhroli oﬃce. Her feeling of joy was 
immeasurable. Puja dedicates her success to YEP and all 
the TCSers who helped her. 
Youth Employment Program (YEP) Case Study
A major achievement of BridgeIT in FY 2024 was the 
agreement between TCS and Humana People to People India 
(HPPI), to empower 1,400 rural youth from socially and 
economically marginalized communities across 14 districts of 
Bihar, Jharkhand, and Rajasthan, by building their capacities 
to become digital entrepreneurs.
A TCS Entrepreneur Network (TEN) was created to encourage 
collaborative knowledge sharing and revenue generation 
ideas among existing and future entrepreneurs. The TCS team 
connects regularly with the entrepreneurs for this purpose. 
Training modules were created and conducted on topics such 
as Cyber Security, Cyber Crime, DTP, and Canva.
An in-house guidebook to learn and adopt new ways to 
generate income has also been developed. Additionally, 
Digital Entrepreneur Learning Intervention (DELI), the TCS 
in-house training curriculum, and content for future training 
programs has also been created.
In FY 2024, 348 active digital entrepreneurs (of which 41% 
comprise women and 77% hail from marginalized 
communities) served 1,735 villages, oﬀering services to 
312,175 beneﬁciaries like document generation, government 
scheme enrollment, online form ﬁlling, and banking 
transactions, among others. 
Launched a decade ago, TCS’ BridgeIT program addresses the 
socio-economic divide in India by creating rural digital 
entrepreneurs. These digipreneurs use information technology 
to help citizens in local communities avail government 
entitlements by providing ﬁnancial and digital services in 
education, employment, and adult literacy, enabling social 
integration.
Operating in 29 districts across 10 states, the program focuses 
on addressing social inequities, particularly among women and 
marginalized communities. By creating entrepreneurs in rural 
India, BridgeIT solves for rural India, in rural India.
BridgeIT
BridegIT Case Study
Shashi Kujur -Digital Mukhiya
Shashi Kujur is today a beacon of empowerment in 
Kura. While Shashi like many women from her 
community married young, she was diﬀerent. Driven by 
the ambition to achieve something signiﬁcant in life, 
she delayed starting a family with her husband. In 2020, 
on hearing news of TCS's BridgeIT, Shashi decided to 
enroll in the program. Equipped with training, a laptop, 
and determination, she transformed a room in her 
home into a digital service hub.
Initially oﬀering a few services, Shashi gradually 
expanded to oﬀer 24 services to her community, 
including PAN cards and ﬁnancial services. With time, 
Shashi gained recognition in her village. Her success 
propelled her to run for Mukhiya in Jharkhand, earning 
the moniker of "Digital Mukhiya."
Shashi's journey exempliﬁes the enabling and 
transformative potential of women's agency and 
entrepreneurship in shaping and uplifting their 
communities. 
I started with apprehensions, but 
with determination, I became the 
‘Digital Mukhiya’ of my village. Proud 
to empower women, bring change, 
and make an impact through 
entrepreneurship.
Shashi Kujur
Kura village, Latehar, Jharkhand
Entrepreneurs: 348 
Beneﬁciaries served by enterpreneures: 312,175
Vulnerable & marginalized: 88%
