69
Management Discussion and Analysis
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis
1	
Nasscom, World Economic Outlook, IMF, April 2024 
2	
Gartner
Overview of the Industry
The journey over the past few years has been eventful, starting 
with supply-chain disruptions in the aftermath of the pandemic, 
the Russia-Ukraine war that triggered a global energy and 
food crisis, and a considerable surge in inflation, followed by a 
globally synchronized monetary policy tightening. The global 
GDP is estimated to have grown at 3.2% in CY 2023, lower than 
3.5% in CY 20221, led by fears of a hard recession. Yet, despite 
many gloomy predictions, the world avoided a recession, the 
banking system proved largely resilient, and major emerging 
market economies did not suffer sudden stops. Economic 
growth has been stronger than expected in the second half of 
2023 in the United States, and several major emerging market 
and developing economies. However, the rising momentum was 
not felt everywhere, with notably subdued growth in the euro 
area, reflecting weak consumer sentiment, the lingering effects 
of high energy prices, and weakness in interest-rate-sensitive 
sectors.
Unmet revenue expectations have ushered in a new wave of 
pragmatism where maintaining a healthy profit margin has 
become pivotal for corporations due to the uncertain macro-
outlook. In extreme cases, organizations resorted to cost-cutting 
measures, such as reducing headcount and cutting discretionary 
spending, including IT services. Organizations taking a more 
rational approach are simply shifting the emphasis of ongoing 
IT projects toward cost control, efficiencies and automation 
while curtailing IT initiatives with longer RoIs. Global technology 
spending on Enterprise software and IT services was close to the 
US$2.3 trillion2 mark in CY 2023, with IT services growing at 6.1% 
YoY to US$1.4 trillion. 
The global IT services industry continues to be a highly 
fragmented one, with even the largest provider having a 
mid-single digit market share. TCS is among the largest IT 
services providers globally, with a market share of 2.1%. TCS’ 
outperformance is significantly higher over the last decade. 
The outperformance may be attributed to market share gains 
resulting from TCS’ strategy on customer centricity, its agile 
organization structure, and a very stable leadership team; 
its investments in organic talent development, research and 
innovation, intellectual property, brand building, and in building 
newer capabilities that have helped expand wallet share with 
clients; and better execution resulting in greater customer 
satisfaction. 
TCS’ Business
An Overview
TCS is an IT services, consulting and business solutions 
organization partnering many of the world’s largest businesses 
in their transformational journeys for the last 56 years. It has 
a global presence, deep domain expertise in multiple industry 
verticals and a complete portfolio of offerings – grouped under 
consulting and service integration, application services, digital 
transformation services, AI and cloud services, engineering 
services, cognitive business operations, and products and 
platforms – targeting every C-suite stakeholder. 
The company leverages all these capabilities and its profound 
contextual knowledge of its customers’ businesses to create 
bespoke, high quality, high impact solutions designed to deliver 
Global Spend on IT Services (US$ Bn)
TCS Revenue (US$ Bn)
FY 2014
FY 2024
2.2x
1.5x
US$ Billion
13.4
926
1,385
29.1
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
