Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
153
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
	
During the year, several initiatives were aligned to achieve the carbon targets which included those in building and IT 
infrastructure. Initiatives in building infrastructure included energy efficiencies in HVAC systems, Uninterrupted Power Supply 
(UPS), and chillers.
	
•	
HVAC system upgradation by installation of latest technology VRF systems which works on inverter technology.
	
•	
Use of High Efficiency VFD based chillers.
	
•	
Replacement of R-22 based & fixed compressor-based HVAC equipment with inverter technology-based equipment
	
•	
Modular UPS which can modulate its capacity based on load and helps provide 90-95% efficiency, even at lower loads.
	
•	
Life cycle based replacement of HVAC equipment like chillers, pumps and cooling towers has helped reduce our energy 
consumption.
	
•	
Energy optimization in our operations through iOT based solutions, remote monitoring, analytics and automated feedback 
mechanism
	
•	
As our commitment to energy conservation and management, 2 additional campuses in India were certified to ISO 
50001:2018 standards for Energy Management Systems (EnMS) in FY 2023-24, making it to a total of 22 campuses certified 
to ISO 50001:2018 across TCS India.
	
Green IT:
	
Initiatives in green Information Technology (IT) focused on data center and IT device consolidation and optimization to reduce 
the carbon footprint. The areas covered under green IT initiatives include IT energy optimization in data centers and equipment 
rooms. TCS’ data centers at Yantra Park (Thane) and Siruseri (Chennai) have a weighted average PUE of 1.7. Apart from the two 
main data centers, TCS also has 54 equipment rooms for business as usual (BAU) activities, wherein the weighted average PUE has 
reduced from 1.88 in FY 2022-23 to 1.76 in FY 2023-24.
	
The data centre at Yantra Park uses 100% Renewable Energy (RE) while the one at Siruseri uses 73% RE. The power consumed by 
the data centers at Yantra Park and Siruseri were 5.52 MWh and 1.65 MWh respectively during the reporting year FY 2023-24. In 
addition to the above, green attributes are considered in every IT asset procurement.
	
TCS’ IoT-based Real-time Energy Management System (TCS Clever Energy™) initiative involves real time monitoring to optimize 
the operational energy efficiency across all offices. The smart, scalable, analytics driven IoT solution uses TCS Connected Universe 
Platform (TCUP) IoT platform, which forms the backbone, enabling visualization of data acquired from various locations and 
facilities’ energy meters and sensors. Other energy optimization initiatives include:
	
•	
IT Equipment optimization (rack consolidation, server consolidation and procurement of energy efficient devices)
	
•	
UPS optimization (right sizing of UPS, replacement of old technology UPS with modular UPS)
	
•	
Cooling optimization (switching off excess capacity cooling units, maintaining return set temperature at 24 +/- 1 deg C, 
replacing old with new technology cooling units) 
	
•	
Leakage reduction (proper alignment of racks and perforated tiles, partitioning to reduce cooling area, cold aisle 
containment, blanking panel, active tiles and soft partitioning
	
Renewable Energy:
	
The roof top solar photo voltaic installations this year remained at 10.2 MWp contributing to 3 percent of total electricity use in 
FY 2023-24. A rooftop solar PV of 260 KWp has been planned for implementation in early FY 2024-25. The Company increased 
its renewable energy procurement through a) switch over to green tariffs for its operations in Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Chennai, 
Kochi and Trivandrum branches, b) Green energy units procurement through Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) at two locations 
in Chennai viz. Ambattur and Chennai One, Magnum, which cumulatively added about 6.5 million green units to the renewable 
energy portfolio). The renewable energy procurement has resulted in an increase in renewable energy use to 74 percent of total 
energy use.
