Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
282
Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
(` crore)
As at  
March 31, 2024
As at  
March 31, 2023
	
Less: Appropriations
	
	
Dividend  on equity shares
 25,137 
 41,347 
	
	
Transfer to capital redemption reserve  (Refer note 6(n))
 4 
 - 
	
	
Transfer to Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
9,875 
 8,380 
 55,173 
 62,228 
Investment revaluation reserve
	
Opening balance 
 138 
580 
	
Change during the year (net)
201 
(442)
339 
138 
Cash flow hedging reserve (Refer note 6(l))
	
Opening balance
(20)
(26)
	
Change during the year (net)
11 
6 
(9)
(20)
71,758 
74,172 
	
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
10)	 Revenue recognition
	
The Company earns revenue primarily from providing IT services, consulting and business solutions. The Company offers a 
consulting-led, cognitive powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and solutions. 
	
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the 
consideration which the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
	
•	
Revenue from time and material and job contracts is recognised on output basis measured by units delivered, efforts 
expended, number of transactions processed, etc. 
	
•	
Revenue related to fixed price maintenance and support services contracts where the Company is standing ready to provide 
services is recognised based on time elapsed mode and revenue is straight-lined over the period of performance. 
	
•	
In respect of other fixed-price contracts, revenue is recognised using percentage-of-completion method (‘POC method’) of 
accounting with contract costs incurred determining the degree of completion of the performance obligation. The contract 
costs used in computing the revenues include cost of fulfilling warranty obligations.  
	
•	
Revenue from the sale of distinct internally developed software and manufactured systems and third party software 
is recognised upfront at the point in time when the system / software is delivered to the customer. In cases where 
implementation and / or customisation services rendered significantly modifies or customises the software, these services 
and software are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognised over time on a POC method.
	
•	
Revenue from the sale of distinct third party hardware is recognised at the point in time when control is transferred to the 
customer. 
	
•	
The solutions offered by the Company may include supply of third-party equipment or software. In such cases, revenue for 
supply of such third party products are recorded at gross or net basis depending on whether the Company is acting as the 
principal or as an agent of the customer. The Company recognises revenue in the gross amount of consideration when it is 
acting as a principal and at net amount of consideration when it is acting as an agent.
	
Revenue is measured based on the transaction price, which is the consideration, adjusted for volume discounts, service level 
credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and incentives, if any, as specified in the contract with the customer. Revenue 
also excludes taxes collected from customers.
