Deep Learning
Subset of machine learning that uses neural networks with many layers (deep neural networks) to analyze various 
factors and make decisions.
Depreciation
Systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an asset over its useful life.
DevOps
Represents a new way of working to rapidly deploy new releases of a software in production using high levels of 
automation and tooling. TCS recommends adoption of DevOps, along with Agile for speed to market.
Digital
Represents technologies such as Social Media, Mobility, Analytics, Big Data, Cloud, Artificial Intelligence and 
Internet of Things. 
Digital Divide
Digital Divide refers to the unequal spread of technology and the opportunities it affords between different 
socioeconomic groups in a society.
Digital Twin 
A digital replica of a physical entity. For instance, a digital twin of a factory is a virtual model of the factory built 
using its data, process, people information. Impact of any change in a process in the real factory can be studied by 
simulating the change in the digital twin.  
Discretionary Spend Also known as Change the Business (CTB) spend, it is that portion of the IT budget which is used to fund projects 
that are not, strictly speaking, essential for day to day operations, but are more transformational in nature. 
In uncertain economic times, when businesses are forced to cut spends in response to decline in income, 
discretionary spend is often the first to be scrutinized. However, what is considered discretionary is subjective and 
may differ considerably amongst businesses even within the same sector.
Distributed Ledger 
Technology
See Blockchain
Dividend
One form of distribution of profits earned by the Company and is usually declared as an amount per equity 
share held by the Shareholders. TCS has a policy of declaring quarterly interim dividends and the final dividend is 
approved by the shareholders in the Annual General Meeting.
DLT
See Distributed Ledger Technology
EACs
Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs) are market-based instruments that can be used by the bearer to claim 
renewable energy consumption. Each EAC is equivalent to 1 MWh of electricity.
Earnings Per Share 
(EPS)
The amount of a given period’s Net profit attributable to a single share after deducting any preference dividend 
and related taxes.
EPS = [Net profit attributable to shareholders of the company – Preference dividend, if any] / Weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the period
Edge Computing
Computing and storage that is located on servers on the edge of the network, in close proximity to the users, but 
not through an on-premises data center; usually reserved for low latency use cases.
Effective Tax Rate 
(ETR)
The proportion of the Profit Before Tax that is provided towards income taxes.
ETR = Tax expense / Profit Before Tax
EIA
Acronym for Environmental Impact Assessment. It is an environmental impact study which needs to be conducted 
as per Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF) requirements for new construction/ expansion projects.
Engineering and 
Industrial Services
Consists of next generation product engineering, manufacturing operations transformation, services 
transformation, embedded software and Internet of Things.
Enterprise Agile
The adoption of Agile methods across all the business functions of the enterprise, designed to empower 
employees, foster collaboration and drive a culture of continuous innovation at scale. 
Environment, Social 
and Governance
Environment, social and governance (ESG) is a system for how to measure the sustainability of a company in three 
specific categories: environment, social and governance.
EPEAT
Acronym for Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool
EPS
See Earnings Per Share
ESG
See Environment, Social and Governance
ETR
See Effective Tax rate
Fair Value
The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date.
Fine Tuning
Process of slightly adjusting or tweaking the parameters of an existing model, which has already been pre-trained 
on a large dataset, to perform a specific task.
Fintech
Businesses that use technology to make financial services more efficient. Some fintech developments have 
improved traditional services, for example mobile banking apps, while others have revolutionized services such as 
pay per mile car insurance, or created new products, such as Bitcoin.
Framework
A kind of intellectual property, consisting of software which provides generic functionality for a certain business 
use case, and which is customized for a specific customer’s needs with additional code. Use of such pre-built code 
reduces time to market and results in more stable, reliable solutions.
Free Cash Flow
Represents the cash a company generates through its operations, less the capital expenditure.
Free cash flow = Cash flow from operating activities – Capital expenditure
FTE
Acronym Full Time Equivalent
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
310
Glossary
