CUSTOMER
S T O R I E S
With a commitment to empower all individuals to access 
financial services equitably, Experian PLC, a global leader in 
consumer and business credit reporting services, has taken a 
significant step towards bridging the gap in financial inclusion for 
differently abled people in the UK. 
As the Dublin, Ireland headquartered company helped 
differently abled people take control of their credit with 
complete access to their data and offers, it discovered that 
this demographic is mostly under-served. Organizations across 
utilities, retail and banking are not aware or not able to cater 
to their support needs effectively, providing the company an 
opportunity to get closer to its customer and deliver more 
accessible products and services. 
Shaping a future of accessibility and 
financial inclusion   
With TCS as a partner, Experian developed the Support Hub 
to help vulnerable people get easier access to essential 
services like banking, utilities, telecom and retail. For the 
first time, consumers can disclose their support needs to 
multiple organizations at the same time and have complete 
control over their data with an intuitive and accessible UX 
designed exclusively for them.  
Leveraging the TCS PaceTM and TCS Accessibility Centre 
of Excellence from design to testing,  Support Hub is 
instrumental in improving Experian’s user engagement. 
The Experian Support Hub allows people to share their 
support needs with multiple service providers in a simple, 
standardized way. For instance, the end customer can now 
define their needs like requesting statements in Braille or 
getting longer appointments or more support when visiting 
a branch.  
Through this unique initiative, Experian has been able to 
expand its partner ecosystem which will help them enter 
new markets and make a pivotal advancement in fostering 
financial inclusion. By 2030, Experian aims to help seven 
million consumers connect with over 200 organizations. 
TCS has been a critical partner of Experian in this initiative from 
day 1, working closely with the Support Hub team to structure 
our requirements and design an intuitive, accessible solution 
that could be deployed quickly. We’re proud of Support Hub and 
its impact in supporting vulnerable consumers, and it’s been a 
pleasure to have TCS join us on this journey.
Paul Lamont
Product Director
Experian Consumer Information Services 
Customer Stories
  
27
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
