Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
94
CorporateGovernanceReport
Material Topic
TCS’ Approach
•	
Gender: Two (22.2 percent) of the nine Directors are women.
• 	
Nationality: Four nationalities represented – Indian, American, Danish and British.
• 	
Industry: Technology, Banking, Energy, Transportation and Academia.
TCS’ policy on Appointment of Directors and Board Diversity can be found at https://on.tcs.
com/appointment-BoD. 
Board independence is ensured by having an independent majority, with 5 independent 
directors out of 9 i.e., 55.6 percent. None of the Independent Directors is related to each other, 
or to the non-independent directors. Average tenure of independent directors is 6 years.
Board effectiveness is further improved by ensuring that none of the directors holds 
directorships in more than seven listed entities, and none of the executive directors serves as 
an independent director on the Boards of more than three listed entities.
TCS’ governance philosophy around minority Shareholders’ interests is guided by the TCoC 
which emphasizes fairness and transparency to all stakeholders. Further a qualified, diverse 
and independent Board ensures that minority shareholders’ interests are protected.
TCS strives to reduce information asymmetry through transparency, extensive disclosures 
and detailed commentary of the demand environment and the state of the business, and 
material developments. The Company provides a variety of channels including a structured 
global investor outreach program, through which minority shareholders can interact with the 
management or the Board.
Shareholders can communicate concerns and grievances to the Company Secretary’s office 
through a well-publicized channel, where complaints are tracked till closure. The Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee oversees the redressal of these complaints.
Avoidance of conflict of 
interest3
Chairmanship4 of the Board is a non-executive position, and separate from that of the 
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (“CEO & MD”).
TCoC5 for non-executive directors, and for independent directors, carries explicit clauses 
covering avoidance of conflict of interest. Likewise, it explicitly prohibits any employee, 
including the executive directors, from accepting any position of responsibility, with or without 
remuneration, with any other organization without TCS’ prior written approval. For the 
executive directors, such approval must be obtained from the Board.
Values, Ethics and compliance6
Over the last five decades, TCS has consistently demonstrated very principled conduct and has 
earned its reputation for trust and integrity while building a highly successful global business. 
The Company’s core values are: Integrity, Responsibility, Excellence, Pioneering and Unity.
The TCoC serves as a moral guide and a governing framework for responsible corporate 
citizenship. It sets out guidelines on various topics including respect for human rights, 
prohibition of bribery and corruption, recognition of employees’ freedom of association, and 
avoidance of conflicts of interest.
Every employee of the Company is required to sign the TCoC at the time of joining. Web-based 
annual refresher courses are mandated to ensure continued awareness of the Code. Further, 
frequent communications from the leadership, reiterate the importance of the Company values 
and the TCoC.
Customers are made aware of the TCoC principles in contract discussions, and through 
inclusion of specific clauses in proposals and contracts.
Employees also undergo Web-based mandatory training every year on Anti-bribery and ethical 
behaviour. They can raise ethics concerns on Ultimatix – the intranet portal of the Company, 
which are investigated and tracked to closure by the HR department. Employees and other 
stakeholders can also report any non-compliance to the TCoC or to the laws of the land by 
senior executives directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee under the Whistle blower 
Policy without fear of retaliation. Information about these channels is communicated to 
employees as part of the mandatory training modules.
3 GRI 2-15
4 GRI 2-11
5  https://www.tcs.com/tata-code-of-conduct
6 GRI 2-12
