Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
207
Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
10)	 Non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities
(a)	 Property, plant and equipment
	
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost comprising of purchase price and any initial directly attributable cost of bringing 
the asset to its working condition for its intended use, less accumulated depreciation (other than freehold land) and impairment 
loss, if any.
	
Depreciation is provided for property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis so as to expense the cost less residual value 
over their estimated useful lives as prescribed in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 except in respect of certain categories 
of assets, where the useful life of the assets has been assessed based on a technical evaluation. The estimated useful lives and 
residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any change in estimate accounted for on a 
prospective basis. 
	
The estimated useful lives are as mentioned below:
Type of asset
Useful lives
Buildings 
20 years*
Leasehold improvements
Lease term
Plant and equipment
10 years*
Computer equipment
4 years*
Vehicles
4 years*
Office equipment
2-5 years*
Electrical installations
4-10 years*
Furniture and fixtures
5 years*
	
* The Group believes that the technically evaluated useful lives, different from Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013, best 
represent the period over which these assets are expected to be used.
	
Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until construction and installation are complete and the asset is ready for 
its intended use.
	
Property, plant and equipment with finite life are evaluated for recoverability whenever there is any indication that their carrying 
amounts may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less cost to 
sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) 
to which the asset belongs. 
	
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
