Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
244
Standalone Financial Statements
statements - Refer income tax liabilities disclosed 
in the balance sheet along with Note 19 to the 
standalone financial statements.
	
	
b.	
The Company did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts for which 
there were any material foreseeable losses.
	
	
c.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, 
required to be transferred, to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the Company.
	
	
d.	
(i)	
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in the Note 21 to the standalone 
financial statements, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or share premium 
or any other sources or kind of funds) by 
the Company to or in any other person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall directly or 
indirectly lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(ii)	 The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in the Note 21 to the standalone 
financial statements, no funds have been 
received by the Company from any person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Company shall directly or indirectly, 
lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Parties (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(iii)	 Based on the audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us to 
believe that the representations under  
sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as 
provided under (i) and (ii) above, contain any 
material misstatement.
	
	
e.	
The interim dividend declared and paid by the 
Company during the year and until the date of 
this audit report is in accordance with Section 
123 of the Act.
	
	
	
The final dividend paid by the Company during 
the year, in respect of the same declared for the 
previous year is in accordance with Section 123 
of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of 
dividend.
	
	
	
As stated in note 26 to the standalone financial 
statements, the Board of Directors of the 
Company has proposed final dividend for the year 
which is subject to the approval of the members 
at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The 
dividend declared is in accordance with Section 
123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
declaration of dividend.
	
	
f.	
The reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 is applicable 
from 1 April 2023. 
	
	
	
Based on our examination which included test 
checks, except for the instances mentioned 
below, the Company has used accounting 
softwares for maintaining its books of account, 
which have a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility and the same has operated 
throughout the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the respective software:
	
	
	
i.	
The feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility was not enabled at the database 
level to log any direct data changes for the 
accounting softwares used for maintaining 
the books of account relating to payroll, 
consolidation process and certain non-
editable fields/tables of the accounting 
software used for maintaining general 
ledger.
	
	
	
ii.	
The feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility was not enabled at the application 
layer of the accounting softwares relating 
to revenue, trade receivables and general 
ledger for the period 1 April 2023 to 13 
November 2023 and relating to property, 
plant and equipment for the period 1 April 
2023 to 14 December 2023.
	
	
	
Further, for the periods where audit trail (edit 
log) facility was enabled and operated throughout 
the year for the respective accounting software, 
we did not come across any instance of the audit 
trail feature being tampered with.
	
C.	
With respect to the matter to be included in the 
Auditor’s Report under Section 197(16) of the Act:
	
	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by 
the Company to its directors during the current year 
is in accordance with the provisions of Section 197 
of the Act. The remuneration paid to any director is 
not in excess of the limit laid down under Section 197 
of the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not 
prescribed other details under Section 197(16) of the 
Act which are required to be commented upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 060154
Date: 12 April 2024
ICAI UDIN: 24060154BKFDGZ4646
