Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
58
Directors’ Report
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 203 of the Act,  
K Krithivasan, CEO & MD, N G Subramaniam, COO & ED, 
Samir Seksaria, Chief Financial Officer and  
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde, Company Secretary are the 
Key Managerial Personnel of the Company as on  
March 31, 2024.
9.	
Number of meetings of the Board
	
Five meetings of the Board were held during the year. 
For details of meetings of the Board, please refer to the 
Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this report.
10.	 Board evaluation1
	
The Board of Directors has carried out an annual evaluation 
of its own performance, board committees, and individual 
directors pursuant to the provisions of the Act and SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
	
The performance of the board was evaluated by the Board 
after seeking inputs from all the directors on the basis 
of criteria such as the board composition and structure, 
effectiveness of board processes, information and 
functioning, etc.
	
The performance of the committees was evaluated by the 
Board after seeking inputs from the committee members 
on the basis of criteria such as the composition of 
committees, effectiveness of committee meetings, etc.
	
The above criteria are broadly based on the Guidance Note 
on Board Evaluation issued by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India on January 5, 2017. In a separate meeting of 
Independent Directors, performance of Non-Independent 
directors, the Board as a whole and Chairman of the 
Company was evaluated, taking into account the views of 
executive directors and non-executive directors.
	
The Board and the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee reviewed the performance of individual 
directors on the basis of criteria such as the contribution 
of the individual director to the board and committee 
meetings like preparedness on the issues to be discussed, 
meaningful and constructive contribution and inputs in 
meetings, etc.
	
At the board meeting that followed the meeting of the 
independent directors and meeting of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, the performance of the Board, 
its Committees, and individual directors was also discussed. 
Performance evaluation of independent directors was done 
by the entire Board, excluding the independent director 
being evaluated.
11.	 Policy on directors’ appointment and remuneration and 
other details
	
The Company’s policy on appointment of directors is 
available on the Company’s website at  
https://on.tcs.com/ApptDirectors.
	
The policy on remuneration and other matters provided 
in Section 178(3) of the Act has been disclosed in the 
Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this report 
and is also available on the Company’s website at  
https://on.tcs.com/remuneration-policy.
12. 	 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
	
TCS’ CSR initiatives and activities are aligned to the 
requirements of Section 135 of the Act.
	
A brief outline of the CSR policy of the Company and the 
initiatives undertaken by the Company on CSR activities 
during the year are set out in Annexure I of this report in 
the format prescribed in the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. This Policy is available on 
the Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-
Policy
	
For other details regarding the CSR Committee, please refer 
to the Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this 
report. 
13.	 Internal financial control systems and their adequacy
	
The details in respect of internal financial control and their 
adequacy are included in the Management Discussion and 
Analysis, which is a part of this report.
14.	 Audit committee
	
The details pertaining to the composition of the Audit 
Committee are included in the Corporate Governance 
Report, which is a part of this report.
15.	 Auditors
	
At the twenty-seventh AGM held on June 9, 2022, the 
Members approved the re-appointment of  
B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
No.101248W/W-100022) as Statutory Auditors of the 
Company to hold office for a period of five years from the 
conclusion of that AGM till the conclusion of the  
thirty-second AGM to be held in the year 2027.
16.	 Auditor’s report and Secretarial audit report
	
The statutory auditor’s report and the secretarial auditor’s 
report do not contain any qualifications, reservations, or 
adverse remarks or disclaimer. Secretarial audit report is 
attached to this report as Annexure II.
17.	 Risk management
	
The Board of Directors of the Company has a Risk 
Management Committee to frame, implement and monitor 
the risk management plan for the Company.
	
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing 
the risk management plan and ensuring its effectiveness. 
The Audit Committee has additional oversight in the area 
of financial risks and controls. The major risks identified by 
the businesses and functions are systematically addressed 
through mitigating actions on a continuing basis. 
	
The development and implementation of risk management 
policy has been covered in the Management Discussion and 
Analysis, which forms part of this report.
18.	 Vigil Mechanism
	
The Company has a Whistle Blower Policy and has 
established the necessary vigil mechanism for directors 
and employees in conformation with Section 177(9) of the 
Act and Regulation 22 of SEBI Listing Regulations, to report 
1	
GRI 2-18
