Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
51
Notice
Annexure A
Details of Director seeking re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting
(In pursuance of Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard – 2 on General Meetings)
Name of the Director
N Chandrasekaran
Director Identification Number (DIN) 
00121863
Designation and Category of Director
Chairman 
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Date of birth and age
June 2, 1963 (60 years)
Date of appointment
Appointed as Member of the Board on September 6, 2007 
Appointed as Chairman on February 21, 2017
Qualifications
•	
Bachelor’s Degree in Applied Science
•	
Master’s Degree in Computer Applications
Brief profile
N Chandrasekaran serves as Chairman of the board of Tata Sons, the holding 
company and promoter of more than 100 Tata operating companies with 
aggregate annual revenues of more than US $150 billion. He joined the board of 
Tata Sons in October 2016 and was appointed Chairman in January 2017.
His appointment as Chairman of Tata Sons followed a 30-year career at TCS. 
N Chandrasekaran rose through the ranks to become the CEO and under his 
leadership, TCS consolidated its position as the largest private sector employer in 
India and India’s most valuable Company.
Since he has taken over as Chairman of Tata Sons, N Chandrasekaran has been 
driving transformation of the group towards digital, sustainability and supply 
chain resilience. The group has forayed into new businesses including electronics 
manufacturing, semiconductor, EV battery manufacturing, consumer internet 
platform, and mobile technology for 5G. The Tata group has expanded its 
aviation presence with the acquisition of Air India and is building a large 
global airline. 
N Chandrasekaran was conferred with the Padma Bhushan, one of the highest 
civilian awards in India, in the field of trade and industry in 2022. The French 
Government conferred him with Légion d’Honneur, the highest civilian award 
in France for his outstanding business successes and decisive contribution to 
strengthening Indo-French economic ties. President Eisenhower Global Award 
for Leadership by the Business Council for International Understanding (BCIU) 
was conferred to him in 2022. 
N Chandrasekaran is the Co-Chair of the US India CEO Forum. He is on the Board 
of Governors of New York Academy of Sciences, elected as an international 
member of the United States National Academy of Engineering (NAE), a 
member of the UTokyo Global Navigation Board, the Mitsubishi’s International 
Advisory Committee and International Advisory Council of Singapore’s Economic 
Development Board. He is the Chairman of Indian Institute of Management, 
Lucknow as well as the President of the Court at Indian Institute of Science, 
Bengaluru. N Chandrasekaran is also a member of the Stanford Doer School for 
Sustainability Advisory Council and the MIT CEO Advisory Board. 
N Chandrasekaran is also the author of Bridgital Nation, a groundbreaking book 
on harnessing technological disruptions to bring Indians closer to their dreams.
Expertise in specific functional areas
Rich experience in various areas of business, technology, operations, societal and 
governance matters
Terms and conditions of re-appointment 
Re-appointment in terms of Section 152(6) of the Companies Act, 2013
