Selected by Nest, UK’s largest workplace 
pension scheme, to digitally transform 
its scheme administration services 
with a future-ready, digitally enabled, 
omnichannel platform powered by TCS 
BaNCSTM. TCS will leverage the latest 
technologies and data analytics to deliver 
enhanced, personalized, and self-directed 
experiences to members. This will enable 
Nest’s 12 million members and 1 million 
employers to access the right information at 
the right time, in the way that suits them best.
Awarded a 10-year contract by the UK’s Department for 
Education (DfE) to manage the scheme administration services 
and further enhance customer experiences for the Teachers’ 
Pension Scheme in England and Wales. TCS’ future-ready, 
digitally enabled, omnichannel platform, powered by TCS 
BaNCSTM, will enable accurate administration of pension records, 
payment of benefits, effective scheme finance management, 
proactive member engagement and easy access to information.
Engaged by Standard Life International DAC, a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Phoenix Group, to transform its 
operating model and enhance the customer experience for its 
policyholders in Europe, using the TCS Digital Platform for Life 
and Pensions, powered by TCS BaNCS. TCS will set up a customer 
operations center in Germany, and a future-ready Life and 
Pensions Digital Platform for Germany and Austria. As part of the 
transformation, TCS will create comprehensive, omnichannel, 
journey-based digital experiences for policyholders and advisors.
Celebrated 20 years in Mexico by inaugurating a new office in 
Monterrey, becoming TCS’ ninth office in the country overall, 
with a state-of-the-art building which is one of the tallest in the 
cities. TCS serves more than 250 clients out of these centers. 
Q1
At the 2023 TCS New York City 
Marathon Expo at the Javits 
Center in New York City,  two-time 
Olympic marathoner Des Linden 
(right) examines a digital twin of 
her heart  being developed by 
Tata Consultancy Services, next to 
Dr. Srinivasan Jayaramen, Principal 
Scientist at TCS. TCS is developing 
a digital twin version of her heart 
to showcase how digital twin 
technology is set to transform 
how elite athletes train, compete, 
and manage their health while 
demonstrating the power and 
potential of personalized health 
and wellness. (Photo credit: Joe 
Hale) 
Partnered with Dassault Systèmes through its Living Heart 
Project that unites an ecosystem of cardiovascular researchers, 
educators, medical device developers, regulatory agencies 
including US FDA, and practicing cardiologists, to develop and 
validate realistic digital simulations of the human heart. The TCS 
Bio Digital Twin is a biophysics-based high-fidelity computational 
model developed by TCS’ researchers, to enable investigation 
of the function of a particular human organ remotely and 
non-invasively.
•	
Created the first-ever digital heart of long-distance runner, 
two-time Olympian, and Boston Marathon champion Des 
Linden. The twin will help see, measure, and monitor the 
heart going through significant stress—and predict with 
high accuracy how it will perform, to transform how the 
athlete trains.
The Year Gone By
  
14
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
