Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
160
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
	
TCS has Emergency Preparedness Plans (EPP) for disasters such as earthquake, floods, cyclones etc in its internal portal. The plan 
outlays the responsibilities of action owners, plan description including precautions to be taken, evacuation procedures and post 
incident action plan which would need to be followed at locations facing the emergency scenario.
	
TCS’ Business Continuity Plans, One for Every Customer Relationship are aligned to their customer requirements and then for 
all enabling functions (Like Admin, IS, HR etc.) are covered within Region (Branch), Global Delivery Centre and for the horizontal 
functions like (Corporate IS function). Each of them maintain their BCP plans aligned to their scope and holistic logical assimilation 
of all these are TCS Level Business continuity  plans.
	
TCS’ Business Continuity Management (BCM)  framework ensures that respective owners consider all contractual/ regulatory 
requirements, scope of services, demographics of operations, interdependencies of services and underlying assets, identifies 
business impact of loss/ interruption or disruption, and determines appropriate continuity strategy for the same. The associated 
potential risks are identified, assessed and appropriate response is devised to handle respective risks. Based on inputs, detailed 
plan is drafted outlaying the responsibilities for action owner to respond during any unforeseen eventualities for Site level outages 
and city level outages (resulting from an earthquakes, floods, cyclones or pandemic level impacts). All these plans are subjected 
to periodic testing to ascertain the realistic applicability of the plan. Also, there are provisions to capture precautions taken, 
evacuation procedures and post incident action plan which enables the continual learnings and incorporating the improvements 
and enhancing the process maturity as a continued process.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard85.
	
No significant adverse impact envisaged from TCS’ value chain.
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts86.
	
TCS launched its Supplier Sustainability Assessment Platform during FY 2022-23. This year 17% of value chain partners (by 
spend) for sustainability criteria was successfully assessed. Through this platform, TCS will continue to engage its suppliers on 
sustainability assessments, training and awareness to help them improve their sustainability performance.
PRINCIPLE 7 : Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible 
and transparent
Essential Indicators
1.	
a.	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations87
	
	
TCS  is associated with various leading trade bodies/ industry chambers/ associations in India. All these associations have a PAN-
India presence and work in close collaboration with governments- central and state. In addition, TCS collaborates with bilateral/ 
multilateral international chambers, based out of India, on multiple technology and trade related matters.
	
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the 
entity is a member of/ affiliated to87
S/N
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry 
chambers/ associations 
(State/National)
1
National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM)
National
2
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
3
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI)
National
4
Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India (ASSOCHAM)
National
5
Public Affairs Forum of India (PAFI)
National
6
The Institute of Management Consultants of India (IMCI)
National
7
Telecom Equipment and Services Export Promotion Council (TEPC)
National
8
Indo American Chamber of Commerce (IACC)
National
9
Bombay Chamber of Commerce (BCCI)
National
10
IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry
National
85	
GRI 308-2 
86	
GRI 308-1, GRI 308-2 
87	
GRI 2-28
