Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
164
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current 
financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
S/N
Intellectual Property based on traditonal 
knowledge
Owned / Acquired 
(Yes/No)
Benefit shared  
(Yes/No)
Basis of calculating 
Benefit share
NA
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein 
usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
NA
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S/N
CSR Project
No. of persons benefited from CSR 
projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups
1
Youth Employment Program (YEP)
23,297
49
2
BridgeIT
3,12,523
88
3
Literacy as a Service (LaaS)
20,342
99
4
Go Innovate Together (goIT)
1,21,648
76
5
Ignite My Future (IMF)
3,19,175
64
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback91.
	
TCS’ customers are large enterprises, typically Fortune 1000 or Global 2000 corporations. They are provided with multiple 
mechanisms to report complaints or feedback.
	
Each customer concern is addressed with utmost care at all levels. TCS teams acknowledge, analyze the incidents and develop an 
action plan to resolve it. The team engages with the customer to validate the action plan and regularly updates customers about 
the progress of action planned.
	
TCS has a structured approach to receive feedback from customers periodically. Such feedback is analyzed for improvements and 
action plans are implemented to ensure utmost customer satisfaction.
	
For privacy specific complaints, they can also raise incidents with TCS’ Data Protection or Privacy Officers. The contact details of 
the data protection and privacy officers are available at  https://www.tcs.com/who-we-are/legal/privacy-policy-commitment or as 
otherwise notified to the customers from time to time.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
	
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
NA  
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal 
91	
GRI 2-16, GRI 2-25, GRI 2-26
