Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
121
Corporate Social Responsibility
Around the world, there are more jobs in STEM and the 
computer sciences than there are qualiﬁed candidates to ﬁll 
them. There is also a lack of understanding of what goes into 
becoming a STEM or computer science professional. The 
National Science Foundation predicts that 80% of the jobs that 
will be created in the next decade will require skills in 
mathematics and science. TCS’ ﬂagship digital innovation and 
career readiness program, go Innovate Together (goIT), 
prepares students with the skills and capabilities required to 
pursue careers of the future.
Through engaging design workshops and custom mentorship 
experiences, goIT helps students by challenging stereotypes 
and inspiring these future leaders to pursue the careers of 
tomorrow. goIT helps students develop core skills in 
partnerships with school districts, using a four-pronged model 
which includes, in-person or virtual volunteer-driven 
engagements, round the year goIT online connects, monthly 
challenges centered around the UN SDGs and mentorship by 
industry professionals from TCS. The impact metrics from 
participating students reinforce the success of the program, 
with 89% aspiring to pursue STEM careers post-program, 96% 
believing they can -create positive community impact, and 99% 
learning new skills from TCS mentor volunteers. goIT’s 
transformative journey helps shape the future of STEM 
education. Since its launch in 2009, goIT has beneﬁtted 
263,282 students with a growing presence across 42 countries. 
FY 2024 was the most impactful year for goIT, beneﬁtting 
121,648 students and educators around the world. 
go Innovate Together (goIT) 
Statistics reveal that women represent fewer than 28% 
of the world’s technology workforce, a fact echoed by 
even lower numbers in the U.S. That is why goIT’s 
achievement in one middle school in Honolulu, Hawaii, 
sends such a strong message. goIT’s ﬁrst-ever classroom 
program in Hawaii, with a group that comprised 75% 
girls, featured the highest ratio of attending girls ever 
achieved in a goIT co-ed oﬀering. TCS partnered with St. 
Andrews schools to bring goIT to 4th and 6th grade 
students, who spent three months working their way
go Innovate Together (goIT) Case Study
Record-breaking female participation in Honolulu
through the goIT Artiﬁcial Intelligence curriculum. The 
engagement gave them hands-on experience with 
machine learning and classiﬁcation modelling. It also 
helped them employ creativity and problem-solving skills 
to create potential sustainable solutions to problems in 
their community. Demonstrating how computer science 
topics are increasingly gaining appeal with girls gives TCS 
hope for the future of the industry. 
The world is evolving at a tremendous pace, and now more 
than ever, young people require 21st-century skills, such as 
computational thinking, to keep abreast with the changing 
times, create avenues for new jobs, and explore possibilities 
for economic equity. Emerging technologies like GenAI 
highlight how core school subjects alone will no longer be 
enough.
Computational thinking is a foundational skill that prepares 
students to think, solve, and create. TCS’ Ignite My Future 
(IMF) is a pioneering endeavor to empower educators 
through a transdisciplinary approach that integrates 
computational thinking into core subjects like mathematics, 
science, art, and social studies. Oﬀered for free, IMF enables 
educators to teach students equitably. The program 
highlights the importance of computational thinking as a 
critical skill in a changing world with complex problems that 
require thoughtful solutions. Through TCS volunteering and 
customer engagements with program partners, IMF brings 
career pathways to life by creating awareness for students on 
potential careers. IMF consistently engages with educators 
and students through the Learning Leaders network, family 
STEM nights, and special student projects.
Ignite My Future (IMF)
Students: 118,016 | Educators: 3,632
Vulnerable & marginalized: 76%
Students: 312,966 | Educators: 6,209
Vulnerable & marginalized: 64%
