Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
60
Directors’ Report
	
b. 	 The percentage increase in the median remuneration 
of employees in the financial year is 10.8 percent.
	
c.	
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of 
Company are 6,01,546.
	
d.	
The average annual increase was in the range of 5.5-8 
percent, with top performers receiving double digit 
increment in India. However, during the course of the 
year, the total increase is in the range of 7-9 percent, 
after accounting for promotions and other event 
based compensation revisions. Employees outside 
India received a wage increase varying from 1.5-6 
percent.
	
	
The increase in remuneration is in line with the 
market trends in the respective countries. In order 
to ensure that remuneration reflects the Company’s 
performance, the performance pay is also linked to 
organization performance and individual utilization in 
addition to individual performance.
	
	
Increase in the managerial remuneration for the year 
was 8.2 percent for COO & ED. Remuneration for 
current and erstwhile CEO & MD, is for part of the year 
and hence not considered.
	
e.	
The Company affirms that the remuneration is as per 
the remuneration policy of the Company.
	
f.	
The statement containing names of top ten employees 
in terms of remuneration drawn and the particulars 
of employees as required under Section 197(12) of 
the Act read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, is provided in a separate 
annexure forming part of this report.
	
	
Further, the report and the accounts are being sent 
to the Members excluding the aforesaid annexure. 
In terms of Section 136 of the Act, the said annexure 
is open for inspection and any Member interested 
in obtaining a copy of the same may write to the 
Company Secretary.
23.	 Integrated Report
	
The Company has voluntarily provided Integrated Report, 
which encompasses both financial and non-financial 
information to enable the Members to take well-informed 
decisions and have a better understanding of the 
Company’s long-term perspective. The Report also touches 
upon aspects such as organization’s strategy, governance 
framework, performance and prospects of value creation 
based on the five forms of capital viz. financial capital, 
intellectual capital, human capital, social capital and natural 
capital.
24.	 Disclosure requirements
	
As per SEBI Listing Regulations, the Corporate Governance 
Report with the Auditors’ Certificate thereon, and the 
integrated Management Discussion and Analysis, the 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) 
form part of the Director’s Report.
	
The BRSR indicates the Company’s performance against 
the principles of the ‘National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct’. This would enable the Members to 
have an insight into Environmental, Social and Governance 
initiatives of the Company.
	
The Company has devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable Secretarial 
Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India and that such systems are adequate and operating 
effectively.
25.	 Deposits from public
	
The Company has not accepted any deposits from public 
and as such, no amount on account of principal or interest 
on deposits from public was outstanding as on the date of 
the balance sheet.
26.	 Conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign 
exchange earnings and outgo
	
Conservation of energy:
	
The Company is committed towards conservation of energy 
and climate action which is reaffirmed in its Environmental 
Sustainability policy (Environmental-Sustainability-Policy.
pdf (tcs.com)). 
	
During the year, several initiatives were aligned to achieve 
the carbon targets which included those in building and IT 
infrastructure. Initiatives in building infrastructure included 
higher energy efficiencies in heating, ventilation, and air 
conditioning (HVAC) systems, uninterruptible power supply 
(UPS), green buildings and energy monitoring & analytics 
(Clever Energy & Resource Optimisation Centre) which have 
resulted in energy savings of 16,301 MWh, equivalent to 
11,671 tCO2e reduction during FY 2024.  
	
Initiatives in green IT focussed on data centre and IT device 
consolidation and optimization to reduce the carbon 
footprint. The Company reduced power consumption 
in one of the data centres by 80kW through server 
consolidation and optimization. As a concomitant interim 
outcome, the weighted average PUE increased marginally 
from 1.66 in FY 2023 to 1.7 during FY 2024. In FY 2025, TCS 
plans to optimize and consolidate the UPS infrastructure, 
towards reducing the non-IT load, thereby achieving the 
PUE target of 1.65. In addition to this, TCS will continue to 
ensure energy efficiency of the equipment procured. 
	
TCS’ IoT-based Real-time Energy Management System 
(TCS Clever EnergyTM) which involves real time energy 
monitoring continues to yield benefits in terms of 
optimization of operational energy efficiency across all 
offices. 
	
The roof top solar photo voltaic installations this year 
remained at 10.2 MWp contributing to 3 percent of 
total electricity use in the reporting year. A rooftop solar 
photovoltaic (PV) of 260 KWp has been planned for 
implementation in FY 2025. The Company increased the 
renewable energy procurement through switch over to 
green tariffs for its operations in several states in India, in 
addition to open access power purchase agreements (PPA) 
for renewable energy in some cases. Renewable energy 
