Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
141
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
	
	
Beyond the OHCs, TCS provides comprehensive medical and healthcare services to employees through the Company-funded 
medical insurance to employees and their dependents. In overseas geographies, non-occupational medical and healthcare 
services are provided as per the country regulations.
	
	
To enable physical fitness, TCS has recreational facilities and gymnasiums at many of its facilities; it organized yoga programs 
such as online sessions, sun salutation challenge and personalized yoga training; continued to run the Fit4Life program with 
daily workout sessions, walking and running challenges.
	
	
Mental well being: TCS, through its TCS Cares initiative, instituted programs for employees and their families to help cope 
with mental stress and anxiety. Online counselling sessions and self-help resources help employees facing high distress levels 
through empathetic support by HR, managers, and peers. Emotional well-being (EWB) leaves are available to employees who 
need them. TCS Cares mental health wellness web-based training (WBT) was completed by many employees during the year. 
Multiple manager and HR sensitization trainings and masterclasses by experts were included as part of the psychologically 
safe workplaces initiative. Senior leadership engagement continued through the Cares Leadership Program, One to One Care 
coaching and the Weekly Care nudges. The Cares Peer Support program for training associates to be emotional health first 
aiders was also launched. The Global Mental Health month was observed in October where multiple offerings on the theme 
of “Compassion & Empathy” were carried out through TCS Calendar events.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents55, in the following format:
	
Typical to any service sector company operating out of office-based premises, most common injuries occur due to slips, trips 
and falls or being struck by stationary objects, road accidents in company provided transport. TCS ensures capturing all types 
of incidents including accidents, near-misses and safety observations and ensuring 100% closure of the reported incidents with 
appropriate corrective and preventive actions.
	
The safety incident statistics is given below –
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23*
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours 
worked)
Employees
0.009
0.016
Total	recordable	work-related injuries
Employees
23
46
No. of fatalities
Employees
1#
0
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
	
#Fatality related to a road accident in company provided transport.
	
*Data excludes accounting for <2% headcount, where TCS does not have operational control.
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place56.
	
TCS recognizes that occupational, health and safety (OHS) and overall physical and mental wellbeing of its employees is integral 
to its success and growth aspirations as spelled out in its OHS Policy. TCS is committed to provide safe workplaces focusing on 
preventing injuries, illnesses, and continuously strives to eliminate hazards and reduce OHS risks.
	
There are no major H&S risks associated with TCS’ operations as software solutions and IT services provider which operates 
from offices. Key workplace safety risks include fire safety in buildings, office safety risks such as slips / trips / falls and electrical 
safety (e.g. electric shock) from use of office equipment and road safety risks during commutes in company-provided vehicles. 
Key occupational health related risks are associated with workplace ergonomics, indoor air quality and workplace illumination. 
Hazard identification and risk assessment processes are conducted to identify each such risks and ensure that proper mitigation 
measures are put in place to create a healthy and safe work environment.
	
Some of the mitigation measures to prevent or mitigate significant occupational H&S impacts include,
	
•	
Provision and maintenance of fire detection, alarm and suppression systems.
	
•	
Regular site review, inspections and audits to assess safety preparedness.
	
•	
Regular mock drills for fire, earthquake, bomb threat as well as medical emergencies.
	
•	
Provision of ergonomically designed chairs and workstations to prevent musculoskeletal disorders (MSD’s).
	
•	
Digital monitoring of indoor air quality and periodic cleaning of the HVAC ducts to avoid sick building syndrome.
	
•	
Regular training on occupational health & safety to sensitize employees on OHS aspects to inculcate a culture of safety.
	
•	
Employee engagement campaigns on H&S topics such as fire safety, road safety, emergency evacuation, and ergonomics, 
among others.
55	
GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10 
56	
GRI 403-6, GRI 403-2, GRI 3-3, GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10
