Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
46
Notice
Based on current applicable threshold for determining the related party transactions that require prior Shareholders approval 
and to facilitate seamless contracting and rendering/availing of product and services between the Company and “related parties”, 
the Company seeks the approval of the shareholders to approve entering into contracts/arrangements within the thresholds and 
conditions mentioned in the resolutions. All the contracts/arrangements and the transactions with “related parties” are reviewed and 
approved by the Audit Committee. Further, the transactions that require testing of arm’s length pricing are reviewed by our statutory 
auditors for being at arm’s length.
Information required to be disclosed in the Explanatory Statement for Item Nos. 4 to 7 pursuant to the SEBI Master Circular  
No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 11, 2023 read with SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2021/662 dated 
November 22, 2021, are as follows:
Item No. 4 
Material Related Party Transactions with Identified subsidiaries of Promoter Company and/ or their subsidiaries
S/N
Description   
Particulars
1.
Name of the related party 	
Identified subsidiaries of Promoter Company and/ or their subsidiaries  
(Please refer Annexure B (i) for the list)
2.
Nature of relationship [including nature of 
its interest (financial or otherwise)]
Identified subsidiaries of Promoter Company and/ or their subsidiaries, which are 
covered under Section 2(76) of the Act and Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
3.
Type of the proposed transaction
(a) 	 Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and 
Digital Engineering, Digital Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, and 
such related areas
(b) 	 Supply of hardware and software
(c) 	 Reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services
(d) 	 Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc. 
(e) 	 Leasing of property 
(f) 	 Any transfer of resources, services, or obligations to meet its objectives/
requirements
4.
Nature, duration/tenure, material terms, 
monetary value and particulars of contract/
arrangement
Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that 
are generally prevalent in the industry segments that the Company operates 
in. Monetary value of transactions through contracts/arrangements which are 
entered for a duration up to 5 years, shall be subject to a maximum 1.2 percent 
with a single related party per annum and a cumulative threshold of 4.2 percent 
across all related parties per annum, of the consolidated turnover of the Company 
for FY2023-24.
5.
Particulars of the proposed transaction
As provided in S/N 3
6.
Tenure of the transaction
Contracts/arrangements with a duration up to 5 years
7.
Value of the proposed transaction 
As provided in S/N 4
8.
Percentage of the Company’s annual 
consolidated turnover, for the immediately 
preceding financial year, that is 
represented by the value of the proposed 
transaction
Monetary value of transactions through contracts/arrangements which are 
entered for a duration up to 5 years, shall be subject to a maximum 1.2 percent 
with a single related party per annum and a cumulative threshold of 4.2 percent 
across all related parties per annum, of the consolidated turnover of the Company 
for FY2023-24.
9.
Justification of the proposed transaction
The Company, being a globally recognised provider of IT services participates in 
the digitisation initiatives of entities within Tata group and partners in respective 
entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During the course of rendering 
such services, the Company also leverages niche skills, capabilities and resources 
of entities within the group. These transactions aim at providing enhanced level 
of user experience to the end-consumers of Tata group and provide the entities 
within the group cutting edge technologies to sustain and grow their business.
10.
Details of the valuation report or external 
party report (if any) enclosed with the 
Notice 
All contracts with related party defined as per Section 2(76) of the Act are 
reviewed for arm’s length testing internally and by Statutory Auditors.
11.
Name of the Director or Key Managerial 
Personnel, who is related
N Chandrasekaran, N G Subramaniam and Aarthi Subramanian
