AI for Business Study 
The advent of GenAI expands the arc of traditional machine 
learning and AI, which is one of recognition and reasoning 
intelligence, to create an operative intelligence that partners 
with humans to create new possibilities and new opportunities 
that have the potential to dramatically reshape business. Today’s 
AI delivers far more than just cost savings or improvements in 
productivity or quality. When combined with human creativity 
and strategic thinking, companies can continuously improve 
are excited or cautiously optimistic about 
AI’s potential impact.
think up to half their employees will be 
using GenAI daily in the near future.
want to take a strategic approach 
to AI, whether it’s an AI-first or 
business-model-first approach to 
maximize benefits to their companies. 
are already using AI in some way to 
enhance current revenue streams or to 
create entirely new revenue streams.
say human strategic decision making, 
intuition, and creativity will remain 
essential to their company’s competitive 
advantage.
are more focused on using AI to spur 
innovation than on lowering costs and 
optimization.
are reworking or planning to rework their 
company’s strategy, operating model or 
offerings to extract the most benefits 
from and to mitigate any risks of AI 
implementations.
From potential to performance by design
Survey highlights and takeaways
customer value chains through diﬀerentiation and consistent, 
high-quality organizational output designed to deliver elite 
outcomes. The recent GenAI technology revolution has taken 
the world, including business, by storm. The advent of GenAI 
tools raises the potential of “traditional AI” to a new level for TCS 
clients, especially those seeking to embrace a strategic approach 
to its adoption and integration.
To understand how companies are approaching AI in the next few years, the TCS Thought Leadership Institute surveyed nearly 
1,300 CEOs and senior executives in large cross-industry enterprises in 24 countries.
Executives weigh in about the potential impact of AI on their 
business
Many employees will come to rely on GenAI in the near future
Assessing the best approach to AI adoption
AI impact on revenue streams
AI’s impact on organizations’ competitive positioning and 
decision-making
Current focus of AI is innovation 
AI impact to strategy and operating models
57%
65%
53%
72%
45%
70%
86%
Top 3 challenges to AI adoption
#1 
#2 
#3
Current IT infrastructure
Customers’ expectations 
Current IT service providers
AI for Business Study
  
30
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
