TCS inculcates a healthy lifestyle among its employees and 
communities by oﬀering work-life balance and providing 
support for emotional wellness. When people feel 
psychologically safe, they build positive workplace 
relationships, realize their potential, proactively take on 
responsibilities, and make meaningful contributions to 
society.
Programs like HOPE, Fit4Life, SafetyFirst, and TCS Cares help 
create awareness about physical and emotional well-being. 
These programs also provide employees the opportunity to 
engage with the community purposefully.
Statista forecasts that by 2050, seniors will account for a 
third of Singapore's population. TCS launched Seniors Lab, a 
pilot digital program for integrated senior care to help 
seniors live and age with conﬁdence, in partnership with Sree 
Narayana Mission (SNM) in Singapore. Designed to address 
rising healthcare costs, Seniors Lab leverages technology to 
create an integrated care delivery system that lowers the 
cost of delivering care while helping the seniors of SNM lead 
safer, more comfortable, and independent lives.
As part of the CANSupport initiative, TCS Malaysia joined 
hands with the National Cancer Society Malaysia (NCSM), to 
develop the ﬁrst-ever digital solution to improve care for 
children with cancer. This groundbreaking initiative is in 
partnership with the Ministries of Health and Transport of 
Malaysia. TCS worked with NCSM to develop a 
technologically driven one-stop platform for all 
cancer-speciﬁc services connecting doctors and caregivers in 
Malaysia. The new digital solution can be accessed by any 
caregiver or newly diagnosed cancer patient.
TCS’ transformations at Tata Medical Center, Kolkata, and 
Cancer Institute, Chennai, facilitated 173,449 new patient 
consultations in FY 2024. 
Health and Wellness
Social Innovation at TCS is based on the belief that social 
change and inclusion are critical to people everywhere. TCS 
utilizes its intellectual and technological capital to generate 
transformational impact globally by providing digital services 
to social organizations, pro bono. TCS leverages its vast 
contextual knowledge, as well as the collective knowledge 
from a diverse network of subject matter experts, to deliver 
innovative solutions for speciﬁc problems that are unique to 
the community in question.
In FY 2024, TCS in Australia completed two projects that 
digitally enabled the Indigenous communities. TCS is 
working with the Indigenous partnerships team and 
research teams at the Australian Institute of Marine Science 
(AIMS) at Bindal Country (Townsville), Larrakia Country 
(Darwin) and Whadjuk Noongar Country (Perth) to build a 
“Northern Australia Marine Monitoring Alliance (NAMMA)” 
digital platform. This platform will leverage AIMS’ research 
and operations in alliance with Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander groups to provide training and build capacity in 
marine monitoring. It will enable Traditional Owners to 
understand changes to their sea country better and sustain 
their determination in preserving marine environments 
across Australia.
Social Innovation
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
125
Corporate Social Responsibility
In the autumn of 2023, Digital Empowers 
orchestrated a transformative webinar, “Seeds of 
Change: Cultivating Generational Shifts through 
Literacy.” The lineup featured distinguished speakers 
including, the Joint Secretary of the Department of 
School Education and Adult Literacy, the CEO of 
Pratham Education Foundation, and the Chief Social 
Responsibility Oﬃcer of TCS.
The virtual gathering brought an audience of more than 
700 together. The participants included central and 
regional government representatives of India, Tata 
Group employees, members of NGOs, foundations, 
corporate entities, students, and more. In the webinar, 
along with showcasing the essence of its CSR initiatives, 
TCS underscored the profound impact of its cross-sector 
collaborations in positively transforming the lives of 
countless individuals. 
In FY 2024, the program has impacted 227,413 people from 
underprivileged communities and enabled them with better 
livelihoods.
Digital Impact Square (DISQ) - Zero Project Awardee 2024
DISQ, a TCS Initiative, is an incubation program for early-stage 
startups which focuses on community inclusion. Young 
innovators are provided skill-building, mentorship and seed 
funds for solutions including assistive technology for persons 
with disabilities. Since 2017, DISQ has nurtured and 
supported several Assistive Tech startups and impacted 
100,000+ disabled and their caregivers. DISQ received the 
#zeroprojectaward - Innovative Solution 2024 at the 
#ZeroConference for removing barriers and improving 
accessibility for disabled people and participated in the 
#ZeroConference. The award ceremony was held at the 
United Nations Oﬃce in Vienna where TCS shared the stage 
with awardees from 43 countries globally. This recognition 
acknowledges the ground-breaking work done by TCS’ 
Assistive Tech Startups. 
