Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
323
Sustainability Disclosures
Climate related  
scenario
Parameters, assumptions, analytical choices
Transition 
scenarios IEA 
B2DS
The climate change scenario analysis conducted for TCS takes a multi-level approach to identify climate risk and 
opportunity hot spots, interdependencies, and interaction with global macro trends. The top-down analysis of the 
macro environmental trends that will impact the company at global level included,
a)	
nature loss and ecological degradation, 
b)	
resource scarcity and driving value chain innovation, 
c)	
changing customer and workforce preferences, 
d)	
the rise of extreme weather, 
e)	
increasing regulations, pricing and disclosure of externalities, 
f)	
digitalization and prevalence of infectious diseases and 
g)	
rising incomes.
Detailed analysis was conducted of material climate change transition risks and opportunities across value chain 
and assessment of interdependencies between climate risks and opportunities including identification of areas 
of potential magnification and hedge opportunities. The key value driver analysis assesses climate risks and 
opportunities across 3 stages of the value chain including a) Supply Chain (input supplies costs, disruption and 
access to supplies) b) Operations (carbon costs, operating costs, insurance/ damage costs due to disruption of 
operation) and c) End Markets (demand for low carbon services/ products, market share and competition). In the 
transition scenario, the IEA B2DS approach has been selected as its more conservative scenario. The inputs included 
those from Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC) reports, the Nationally Determined Contributions 
(NDCs), the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Government of India plan on energy efficiency and solar 
energy. The assumptions used in the analysis also considered the anticipated growth of TCS over the years and 
increased energy demand. Changing customer behaviour and carbon costs are assessed as a transition risk to 
TCS with a growing number of jurisdictions at regional and national level planning to implement a carbon tax or 
emission trading scheme.
Physical  
climate  
scenarios 
RCP 8.5
The climate change scenario analysis conducted for TCS takes a multi-level approach to identify climate risk and 
opportunity hot spots, interdependencies, and interaction with global macro trends. The top-down analysis of the 
macro environmental trends that will impact the company at global level included,
a)	
nature loss and ecological degradation, 
b)	
resource scarcity and driving value chain innovation, 
c)	
changing customer and workforce preferences, 
d)	
the rise of extreme weather, 
e)	
increasing regulations, pricing, and disclosure of externalities, 
f)	
digitalization and prevalence of infectious diseases and 
g)	
rising incomes
Detailed analysis was conducted of material climate change physical risks and opportunities across value chain 
and assessment of interdependencies between climate risks and opportunities including identification of areas of 
potential magnification and hedge opportunities. The key value drivers’ analysis assesses them across 3 stages of 
the value chain including a) Supply Chain (input supplies costs, disruption and access to supplies) b) Operations 
(carbon costs, operating costs, insurance/ damage costs due to disruption of operation) and c) End Markets 
(demand for low carbon services/ products, market share and competition) The physical risk is assessed using the 
RCP 8.5 scenario. The RCP 8.5 scenario takes a global warming between 3-4 degrees above pre-industrial levels 
which is a conservative scenario and helps TCS understand the worst-case climate impacts on its operations. The 
inputs included IPCC reports, the NDCs, the SDGs and Govt. of India plan on energy efficiency and solar energy. The 
assumptions used in the analysis also considered the anticipated growth of TCS over the years and increased energy 
demand. Few strategies to mitigate physical risks of climate change include:
1)	
A robust Business Continuity Plan (BCP) to respond to climate events 
2)	
Investments in climate resilient infrastructure (for cyclone, floods).
Section 3: Risk management
At TCS, the Corporate Risk Office, led by the Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for driving Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) across all 
functions in line with TCS Global Risk Management Policy. Refer the MD&A section on page numbers 78, for details on how ERM is driven 
across the company on all topics, including climate related risks and opportunities. The company also considers evolving concepts, trends, 
policies, customer requirements, regulations, and climate scenario analysis to identify Risk & Opportunities. The company also considers 
international guidelines/frameworks like GRI, SASB, and CDP for Risk & Opportunity drivers.
Risk Assessment Methodology: Refer the MD&A section page number 79 of the TCS Integrated Annual Report for information on 
Enterprise Risk Management process followed at TCS.
