SEZ
See Special Economic Zone 
Shareholder Payout 
Ratio
The proportion of earnings paid to shareholders as a percentage of the company’s earnings, i.e. Net profit 
attributable to shareholders of the company. Payout can be in the form of dividend and share buyback, including 
taxes thereon.
Simplification
The rationalization of IT architectures through consolidation of systems and elimination of redundant systems and 
layers. The primary purpose is to shrink the IT footprint and make operations leaner and more efficient.
SOC
See Security Operations Center
Sole Sourced 
Contract
Non-competitive agreements that allow a single vendor to fulfill the needs of the contractual requirements. 
These types of contracts can be won when the competitor set narrows down significantly and comes down to a 
single vendor discussion, given the nature of the client’s solution requirements.
Special Economic 
Zone
In India, these are designated areas in which business and trade laws are different from the rest of the country, 
with various benefits and tax breaks to promote exports, attract investments, and create local jobs.
STEM
An acronym for education in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math.
T&M
See Time and Materials Contract
tCO2e
Acronym for tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
TCS Pace™ 
A brand promise that represents the way TCS channels its domain knowledge and organizational units – business 
and technology services, industry solutions units, and the research and innovation organization – into internal 
and external co-innovation programs.
TCS Pace Port™ 
Physical spaces where TCS Pace can be experienced. These spaces are close to academic and start-up hubs, and 
enclose innovation showcases, Agile workspaces and think spaces. They encourage brainstorming, design thinking 
and collaborative innovation with internal and external partners. 
TCV
See Total Contract Value
Time and Materials 
Contract
A form of services contract where the customer is billed for the effort (in hours, days, weeks, etc.) logged by the 
project team members. Project risk is borne by the customer. This contrasts with Fixed Price Contracts.
Total Contract Value An aggregation of the value of all the contracts signed during a period and a useful indicator of demand, and 
near-term business visibility.
Turnkey Contracts
See Fixed Price Contracts
Unearned and 
Deferred Revenue
For invoices raised in line with agreed milestones for services yet to be delivered. In other words, it is the amount 
that has been invoiced although the underlying effort is yet to be expended.
UPS
Acronym for Uninterruptible Power Supply. It is an electrical device that combines surge protection with a battery 
back-up.
Vendor 
Consolidation
A strategy to reduce costs and the overheads of managing a large number of vendors. Usually entails aggregating 
work currently outsourced to many small providers, and transferring it to a smaller, select set of winning bidders.  
Besides cost reduction, clients use this to reduce complexity and accelerate their cloud transformation journeys. 
Selecting a single strategic partner with end-to-end capabilities to maintain the legacy estate and support the 
modernization drives efficiency, accountability and speed.
VFD
Acronym for Variable frequency drive. It is used to regulate the electrical frequency (Hz) of the power supplied to 
a chiller so that the compressor speed and condenser fan speed (air-cooled chillers only) can be controlled.
Virtual Reality 
Artificial, computer-generated simulation or recreation of a real-life environment or situation. It engages users by 
offering simulated reality experiences firsthand, primarily by stimulating their vision and hearing.
Virtualization
The abstraction of IT resources – like a server, client, storage or network – that masks the physical nature and 
boundaries of those resources from the users of those resources.
Voluntary Attrition
Refers to reduction in workforce resulting from employees willingly leaving the organization to pursue other 
opportunities, spend time with family, or for some other personal reason.
VR
See Virtual Reality
VRF
Acronym for Variable refrigerant flow. Variable refrigerant flow is an air-conditioning system in which multiple 
indoor units and a single outdoor condensing unit are available. It is precisely the system’s capability that helps to 
control the amount of refrigerant flowing to the indoor units.  
XR 
Extended reality, an umbrella term that covers augmented reality, virtual reality and mixed reality. 
Y-o-Y
Year-on-Year
ZWL
Zero Waste to Landfill - It is a specific goal that can be independently verified. The common interpretation means 
that at least 99 percent of generated waste is diverted away from landfill, i.e. all waste produced is either reused, 
recycled, composted, or sent to energy recovery.
Fixed Price 
Contracts
A form of services contracts where the vendor takes a turnkey responsibility for delivering a solution for a certain 
price and within a mutually agreed timeframe. The customer is billed on completion of key project milestones 
and related deliverables. This arrangement gives the vendor considerable flexibility in the staffing and execution 
of the project. On the other hand, it also means bearing the project risk.
Disclaimer: This glossary is intended to help understand commonly used terms and phrases in this report. The explanations are not intended 
to be technical definitions. If explanations provided here are found to be different from what is described in the Company’s periodic financial 
statements (not limited to Notes to Accounts), then the definition provided in the certified financial statements will prevail.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
314
Glossary
