Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
149
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.
	
Human rights are protected and upheld in TCS’ core value of ‘Respect for the individual’ and enshrined in the TCoC that guides 
how TCS conducts itself in every community that it operates in. TCS has relevant in-house policies and procedures to reinforce 
human rights, resulting in a good track record regarding human rights grievances or complaints. TCS continually gathers feedback 
and keeps track of developments in the regulatory area to further strengthen existing processes.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any human rights due-diligence conducted.
	
 TCS adopts a zero-tolerance approach to issues related to human rights. It follows all government regulations and regulatory 
policies in the countries where it operates and comply to all applicable global and local laws including collective bargaining 
agreements through its policies and standards. TCS executes the TCoC which takes care of Human Rights aspects. In vendor 
management, TCS ensures due diligence for human rights under the ESG framework.
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes. All TCS-owned premises are accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the the RPWD 2016 Act.
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were 
assessed
Sexual Harassment
All value chain partners are expected to adhere to the applicable laws, TCOC and Supplier 
Code of Conduct which does not tolerate any form of harassment, whether sexual, 
physical, verbal, or psychological. However, TCS does not conduct any formal assessment 
for the same.
Discrimination at workplace
100% of value chain partners were assessed.
Child Labour
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
Wages
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
	
There were no significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments.
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format72:
	
Electricity from the grid is the most significant form of energy for TCS. Over the years, TCS has increased the share of Renewable 
Electricity (RE) through “green-tariff” schemes offered by the state electricity providers, onsite rooftop solar generation and 
procurement from third party producers in India. In certain countries, Energy Attribute Certificates (EAC) have been procured to 
meet out carbon neutrality objectives in those geographies. The RE consumption as a percentage of total energy consumption has 
increased from 55.2% in FY 2022-23 to 74% in FY 2023-24. Electricity consumption across TCS operations increased by  
14.6% y-o-y on account of increased scale of operations in FY 2023-24 compared to previous year, due to more associates 
returning to office. An inclusion of 14 locations globally in the reporting boundary during the current year attributed to a 2.8% 
increase leading to an overall increase in electricity consumption. .
	
Other sources of energy include natural gas (mainly used for space heating/cooling, district heating and cooling, mostly in 
overseas geographies), fuel used in company owned vehicles, cooking gas used in cafeteria and diesel used in diesel generators 
(mainly used as a back-up source during power shortages).
72	
GRI 302-1, GRI 302-3
