The Year Gone By
Launched TCS Pace Port™ London, the company’s 
sixth global research and co-innovation hub, which 
is set to become a dynamic center for cutting-
edge technology research and development in 
the region. The Pace Port will focus on innovation 
across a cross-section of industries, government 
priorities and critical national infrastructure while 
creating an ecosystem of experiences.
Q4
Announced a 15-year expansion of its 
partnership with Aviva, the UK’s leading 
insurance, wealth and retirement provider, 
to transform Aviva’s UK life business and 
enhance customer experience leveraging 
the TCS BaNCSTM platform. As part of this, 
the end-to-end policy administration and 
servicing will expand to cover over 5.5 
million policies.
Announced a final dividend of ₹28 per 
share, taking the total dividend for the year to ₹73 per share. 
The company also completed its fifth successful buyback 
returning ₹17,000 crore to shareholders, wherein the buyback 
process was completed in record time of 63 days. The total 
shareholder payout for the year was ₹47,445 crore.
Recognized as a Global Top Employer by the Top Employers 
Institute for the ninth consecutive year, for TCS’ pioneering 
employee engagement and talent development initiatives. TCS 
was also named a top employer in 32 countries and regions, 
including Europe, the UK, the Middle East, North America, Latin 
America, and South-East Asia.
Ranked the #1 IT service provider for customer satisfaction 
in Europe in an independent survey of over 2,000 CXOs of 
the continent’s top IT spenders by Whitelane Research, for 
the 11th consecutive time. The study also revealed that TCS 
demonstrated an ‘exceptional’ level of performance across five 
key IT domains: Digital Transformation, Workplace Services, 
Security Services, Application Services and Cloud Services, where 
TCS scored more than 80%, and maintained a healthy lead 
compared to industry average scores. 
Launched an AI Experience Zone to foster hands-on proficiency 
in AI and GenAI for its employees. Within this immersive 
environment, TCS employees can explore, engage, and 
experiment with cutting-edge GenAI-powered applications, 
creating innovative use cases, with all necessary guardrails and 
while upholding Responsible AI principles. 
Ranked the second most valuable IT services brand (brand 
value up 11.5% to US$19.2 billion) by Brand Finance, with the 
incremental US$2 billion growth being the highest absolute 
growth posted among the Top 25 leading IT firms in the world.
Former Executive Director, Phiroz Vandrevala, passed away in 
January 2024. He was a key part of the leadership team and 
made many significant contributions, such as being part of the 
efforts to take TCS public in its IPO in 2004, opening-up new 
markets, mentoring a new generation of TCSers, and in building 
a strong foundation for the company in the life and pensions 
industry. 
Enabled Europe’s most modern post-trade platform with 
Euroclear Finland, the national central securities depository 
of Finland, to integrate its core platform with the European 
securities settlement engine. This transformation program 
ensures easier cross-border settlements for investors in Finnish 
securities, attract more investment into the country, improve 
access to capital for Finnish issuers and also reduce cross-border 
settlement risks and costs for investors.
Featured on FORTUNE® 
Magazine’s 2024 list 
of the World’s Most 
Admired Companies, also 
featured in the Forbes 
Global 2000 Rankings of 
the largest companies in 
the world. 
From Fortune, ©2024 Fortune Media IP Limited. 
All rights reserved. Used under license.
The Year Gone By
  
11
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
