AI and GenAI
S T O R I E S
TCS customer is a leading Global Insurance and Asset Management 
Provider. The customer’s contact center agents need to respond to 
user queries related to travel insurance policies’ terms & conditions 
across various states it is presently servicing. Agents had to search 
through many T&C, resulting in high wait time for the customer.
TCS designed a GenAI led solution to generate quick yet consistent 
and contextual responses for end users. The state-wise T&C and 
insurance plans were extracted and semantically chunked to 
provide context to GenAI models based on user query. Prompt 
templates were created to extract contextual information needed 
for agents to generate responses to the end user query. Guardrails 
have been implemented using responsible AI principles. Agents can 
review, validate, and fine tune responses as needed.
The solution can help reduce the average handling time by 40% 
and thereby result in an overall improvement in 
customer satisfaction.
TCS customer is a leading electricity generating and gas retailing 
company in ANZ, whose strategy is to develop new power 
generation infra and improve existing assets to drive long-term 
growth while meeting sustainability. Currently, significant fuels 
used to generate electricity are natural gas and coal and three 
gas turbines are being used to meet peak load of grid. One of 
the gas turbine compressor casing had developed crack and 
functionally failed which resulted in shut down. The customer 
wanted to avoid these unwanted shutdowns by predicting the 
survival probability for combustor casings.
TCS’ IP2TM, an intelligent power plant solution that uses AI, 
IoT, and digital twin technologies was deployed to extract 
operational life experience profile from timeseries sensors’ 
information of the gas turbine process including more than 
seven years of historical data. The solution summarizes the data 
and predicts and validates crack length based on the same for 
other gas turbines.
TCS solution has helped in ensuring that the gas turbines 
operate efficiently and in preventing costly unplanned 
maintenance and helps in reducing plant O&M costs while 
reducing carbon emissions.
Agent Assist for Travel Insurance 
Policy Servicing
Built Proactive maintenance Paradigm 
for Gas Turbine Compressor casing
Customer Stories
  
34
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
