Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
248
Standalone Financial Statements
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has not made 
any preferential allotment or private placement of 
shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during 
the year. Accordingly, clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not 
applicable.
(xi)	 (a)	 Based on examination of the books and records of 
the Company and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, considering the principles 
of materiality outlined in Standards on Auditing, 
we report that no fraud by the Company or on the 
Company has been noticed or reported during the 
course of the audit.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us, no report under sub-section (12) of Section 
143 of the Act has been filed by the auditors in Form 
ADT-4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central 
Government.
	
(c)	 We have taken into consideration the whistle blower 
complaints received by the Company during the year 
while determining the nature, timing and extent of our 
audit procedures.
(xii)	 According to the information and explanations given to us, 
the Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, clause 
3(xii) of the Order is not applicable.
(xiii)	In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the transactions with related 
parties are in compliance with Section 177 and 188 of the 
Act, where applicable, and the details of the related party 
transactions have been disclosed in the standalone financial 
statements as required by the applicable accounting 
standards.
(xiv)	(a)	 Based on information and explanations provided 
to us and our audit procedures, in our opinion, the 
Company has an internal audit system commensurate 
with the size and nature of its business.
	
(b)	 We have considered the internal audit reports of the 
Company issued till date for the period under audit.
(xv)	 In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has not entered 
into any non-cash transactions with its directors or persons 
connected to its directors and hence, provisions of Section 
192 of the Act are not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)	(a)	 The Company is not required to be registered under 
Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable.
	
(b)	 The Company is not required to be registered under 
Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not 
applicable.
	
(c)	 The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) 
as defined in the regulations made by the Reserve 
Bank of India. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order 
is not applicable.
	
(d)	 According to the information and explanations 
provided to us, the Group (as per the provisions 
of the Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) 
Directions, 2016) has more than one CIC as part of the 
Group. The Group has four CICs as part of the Group.
(xvii)	The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current 
and in the immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
during the year. Accordingly, clause 3(xviii) of the Order is 
not applicable.
(xix)	According to the information and explanations given to us 
and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected 
dates of realisation of financial assets and payment of 
financial liabilities, our knowledge of the Board of Directors 
and management plans and based on our examination 
of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has 
come to our attention, which causes us to believe that 
any material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit 
report that the Company is not capable of meeting its 
liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when 
they fall due within a period of one year from the balance 
sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company. We further state 
that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of 
the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any 
assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of 
one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged 
by the Company as and when they fall due.
	
Also refer to the Other Information paragraph of our main 
audit report which explains that the other information 
comprising the information included in Company’s annual 
report is expected to be made available to us after the date 
of this auditor’s report.
(xx)	 (a)	 In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, there is no unspent amount 
under sub-section (5) of Section 135 of the Act 
pursuant to any project other than ongoing projects. 
Accordingly, clause 3(xx)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable.
	
(b)	 In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us and based on an 
independent legal opinion obtained by the Company, 
upon irrevocable transfer of funds by the Company 
to implementing agencies for designated multiyear 
projects undertaken through them, there is no 
unspent amount under sub-section (5) of Section 135 
of the Act pursuant to ongoing projects. Accordingly, 
clause 3(xx)(b) of the Order is not applicable.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 060154
Date: 12 April 2024
 ICAI UDIN: 24060154BKFDGZ4646
