Business Overview
Established in 1968, our company has been a pioneer in the 
IT industry, across various technology cycles. At each of these 
defining moments, we refocused our investments, reinvented 
ourselves, and helped clients transform their businesses to stay 
ahead of the technology curve.
During FY 2024, customers continued reprioritization of 
projects in favor of those which are considered business-
critical and where ROI realization is likely faster. We continue 
to see pressure on customers’ discretionary spending. The 
recently won deals are converting into revenue as planned, 
the ongoing engagements started during the pandemic are 
being re-examined for the incremental value generated. While 
transformation remains a key ask, customers are expecting the 
same to be funded through savings from operations. Hence, the 
key engagement themes we saw during the year were  around 
cost optimization and cloud transformation.
Demand was led by vendor consolidation, cloud migration 
and transformation, customer and employee experience 
enhancement, operating model transformation, business 
process optimization, supply chain initiatives, sustainability, AI
enablement i.e. creating a cloud and data foundation for AI, and 
early-stage AI-infused transformational engagements.
Today, clients are seeing cloud as a strategy for business 
transformation and growth. The shift to cloud-native products 
and platforms is being fast-tracked, to achieve increased 
collaboration, security, scalability and efficiency. Hybrid,
multi-cloud platforms are now becoming mainstream. Cloud 
adoption is a catalyst for innovation, and a strategy for 
business and growth itself. It provides the unifying digital fabric 
that forms the foundation for a connected future—one
that continues to unfold with each technological advancement, 
including generative AI (GenAI).
The rise of GenAI has been catching customers’ attention, and 
it promises a leap in productivity and accelerates the creation 
of new products and services. Although still in the early stages 
of adoption, the use of GenAI is expected to transform every 
industry. Many of our clients who are early adopters have begun 
experimentation and exploration on various use cases of GenAI, 
with our help.
The Innovation Edge
Exploring innovative uses of GenAI continues to be a  key 
focus area. We are helping our customers to use AI to: 
(i) Assist, leveraging AI to supplement tacit knowledge with 
contextual knowledge to boost work effectiveness (ii) Augment, 
accelerating elite performance through collaborative 
intelligence, where humans and machines complement and 
magnify each other’s talents, and (iii) Transform, leaping to a 
knowledge-driven superstructure with fast, consistent, and 
high-quality decision output to deliver new ways of working and 
the full realization of enterprise-wide AI. We have created one 
of the largest AI / ML and GenAI talent pools in the industry. We 
have doubled down on partnerships in areas such as AI, cloud, 
quantum computing and cybersecurity. These early investments 
have given TCS a head start in being a partner in our customers’ 
technology adoption journey.
With our contextual knowledge and domain expertise, 
engineering DNA and intellectual capital, we have been the 
preferred partner for many customers in their strategic
initiatives. This year, we signed several deals that are 
industry- defining in nature. We have included narratives about 
the work we did for BSNL – building an indigenous network, a 
true nation building project and how we built an advanced post 
trading platform for SIX in this Integrated Annual Report.
Our continued investments in Research and Innovation, and in 
building intellectual property, have further strengthened our 
transformational credentials. Many of our earlier R&I programs 
have matured into successful platforms and solutions which 
performed very well this year and helped differentiate our 
growth. We leveraged TCS HOBSTM to transform Celcom Axiata 
Berhad’s core business support systems. For PostNord, TCS 
TwinXTM is helping increase sorter capacity, remove bottlenecks, 
and improve the collection and distribution sort plan. Similarly, 
TCS OmnistoreTM is helping European home improvement 
company Kingfisher orchestrate a faster, smoother, and seamless 
checkout experience.
Building a Skilled Workforce
Our approach to talent is strategic — we consider our employees 
as key stakeholders in our growth. Our ability to cycle through 
different technology and business model changes, continuously 
embrace new knowledge and stay relevant, defines us and gives 
us a significant edge over our competitors.
We have a strength of 601,546 employees, and our LTM attrition 
in IT services was 12.5%, down by 760 bps over the previous 
year. Our workforce continued to be very diverse, with over 152 
nationalities represented and with women making up 35.6% of 
the employee base.
We launched several initiatives this year to 
inculcate a strong engineering culture among 
our employees and build deeper skills in 
market relevant technologies like Cloud, AI, 
Cyber Security and more. TCS is collaborating 
with all the hyperscalers and entering new 
partnerships with other important players in 
the AI ecosystem to upskill at scale and build 
AI computing infrastructure to develop AI 
solutions for our customers.
Letter from the CEO
  
9
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
