Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
318
Sustainability Disclosures
TCS Climate Related Disclosures
In FY 2023, TCS’ climate related disclosures were aligned to the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Subsequently, 
TCFD fulfilled its remit and was disbanded in October 2023. 
The International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) released IFRS S2, Climate-related Disclosures, in January 2024, which is aligned 
with the recommendations of TCFD. This year, TCS has disclosed information related to climate-related risk and opportunities aligned with 
IFRS S2. IFRS S2 applies to disclosure of (1) climate related risks (physical and transitional), to which the entity is exposed and (2) climate 
related opportunities available to the entity. 
The disclosure requirements in IFRS S2 are structured around the core content related to the following sections: 
Section 1: Governance
Section 2: Strategy
Section 3: Risk Management
Section 4: Metrics and Targets
Each of the above topics are addressed below.
Section 1: Governance
TCS has a Board level Stakeholder Relationship Committee (SRC) that oversees different aspects of climate-related risks and opportunities. 
Stakeholder Relationship Committee (SRC)
•	
The SRC is chaired by an independent director and comprises of 3 members including the CEO. It reviews the climate change 
strategy, approach, and performance of the organization with respect to sustainability and climate change. 
•	
The SRC formally meets twice every year to review policies and sustainability performance, including climate change and carbon 
performance. The board oversight helps drive the program effectively with greater accountability. 
•	
The CEO, as a part of the SRC, is directly responsible for the efficient operations of the facility and hence is better able to review 
performance and drive improvement. The updates are provided by the Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) and is supported by 
the Head - Environmental Sustainability, Health and Safety (ESHS) who oversees the environment and climate change implementation 
at the organisation. 
•	
TCS’ carbon reduction goal to reduce its absolute greenhouse gas emissions across Scope 1 and Scope 2 by 70% by 2025 (over 2016 
base year), and to achieve net zero emissions by 2030, was reviewed and approved by the committee.
•	
Statement by Senior management: Refer page number 132 in BRSR for N G Subramaniam, COO & Executive Director’s statement. 
•	
During the half yearly meetings, the SRC monitors the progress towards the carbon targets and the carbon reduction initiatives that 
have been implemented and planned.
Competency: 
TCS has a competent team working on Environmental Sustainability. TCS’ Head - Environmental Sustainability, Health, and Safety (ESHS) is 
a Doctorate in Environmental Science and Engineering and has over 30 years of post-doctoral experience in environmental sustainability 
and climate change.  The ESHS team has recruited professionals who have the requisite qualification and experience in climate change 
and environmental sustainability. The team has undergone training in advanced topics and regularly participates in external training 
programs and sessions on the emerging frameworks and regulatory requirements around climate change.
TCS is also a member of the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) and National Association of Software and Services Companies 
(NASSCOM), and the company participates as panelist, assessor, or speaker in their training and capacity building workshops on climate 
change with the perspective of spreading know-how on ESG, climate change mitigation and adaptation strategies among other industries. 
Remuneration: Refer page number 103 for information on remuneration of the Board members.
Apart from the SRC, TCS also has the Risk Management Committee (RMC) that is responsible for risk management oversight at the 
corporate level.
Risk Management Committee (RMC)
•	
The RMC is chaired by an independent director and comprises of 5 members including one additional independent director, 2 
executive directors, i.e. CEO, COO, and one company executive, CFO. 
