Through Tech4HOPE, TCS provides pro-bono advisory and 
technology consulting services to organizations and 
non-proﬁts that seek to create socio-environmental impact. 
Tech4HOPE
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
123
Corporate Social Responsibility
a feeling of satisfaction every time I look back at the work I 
did, to serve my community and my family. I strongly 
encourage young people to volunteer and help others, 
because just as volunteering helps others, it also helps us 
discover skills we didn't know we had, such as 
communication, team building, and interpersonal skills. 
I got the opportunity to volunteer for 
FlyHigh. Witnessing the enthusiasm and 
growth in these young minds was truly 
inspiring. The experience not only enriched 
their lives but also taught me the profound 
impact a small eﬀort can have on shaping 
the future. I encourage others to join in, to 
create positive change through education 
and mentorship. 
Ayush Shrivastava 
CIU/Indore
MSR Murthy
TCS Hyderabad
Prachi Nawale has been actively volunteering for the 
SGNP Adivasi Child Education Program to support 
underprivileged children by providing educational 
sponsorship. Her mission is to take education to 
marginalized children from indigenous communities and 
help them make the transition to a brighter future. 
Prachi and her team at TCS collaborated with 
DoorStepSchool, an NGO, to identify children and 
provide academic tuition, sponsored by a TCS Purpose 
Partner, a global energy organization, to provide primary 
and secondary education to children from indigenous 
regions or Adivasi Padas at the Sanjay Gandhi National 
Park, Mumbai. The team also celebrates festivals and 
organizes various activities for these children like 
donation drives with clothes, stationery, and toys, as 
well as food distribution events. Prachi ﬁnds it 
heartening that in the 10 years of their association with 
this group, many of the children have completed their 
secondary and higher secondary education. She is 
particularly proud of one of the students, who is now 
pursuing her higher studies with support from Prachi 
and the team. A dedicated volunteer and a shining ray of 
HOPE, Prachi believes that sharing is caring. 
Hours of Purpose by Employees (HOPE)
Volunteering Story
I believe in the philosophy of “sharing 
is caring.” Early in life, my parents 
cultivated in me the value of 
generosity. This encouraged me to 
work for societal well-being. I am 
blessed to have a wonderful family 
who always supports me and 
participates in HOPE activities along 
with me. Giving back to society gives 
me immense joy and ﬁlls me with a 
sense of fulﬁllment. I feel blessed and 
grateful for all that I have. 
Prachi Nawale,
TCS Mumbai
I used to be shy, now I can speak English”. These words 
were said by a young adult who attended FlyHigh, a soft 
skills development volunteering program for 
underprivileged students in a government school in 
Indore. TCS employees went to the school for 15 days to 
take classes and help the students gain conﬁdence in 
speaking English. During the valedictory ceremony, 
students spoke about their experience of attending 
FlyHigh and shared how the program helped them 
overcome their shyness and fear of speaking in English. 
