Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
319
Sustainability Disclosures
•	
The RMC formulates, monitors, and reviews the company’s risk management policy.
•	
Climate change risks and opportunities are covered under the strategic and operational risks for the Company and are reviewed in 
the RMC committee meetings.
Section 2: Strategy
Climate related risks continue to challenge businesses in every possible way, sometimes amplifying existing risks. Not only is their nature 
evolving, but their speed of impacting the organisation’s operations is also increasing. Operating in an uncertain and ever-changing 
environment, TCS’ global operations bring in considerable complexities and TCS’ robust enterprise risk management framework aids 
in ensuring the strategic objectives are achieved. This framework enables risk identification for short, medium, and long term, risk 
assessment, risk response planning and actions, risk monitoring and overall risk governance.
Climate-related risks and opportunities
Refer to the MD&A section on page number 86 of the TCS Integrated Annual Report for identified climate-related risk and opportunities 
that could reasonably affect TCS’ prospects. The section includes the company’s adaptation methodology which will be implemented over 
following time horizons:
 Time-horizon
From (years)
To (years)
Short-term
0
5
Medium-term
5
10
Long-term
10
Beyond 10
Below is a brief description of TCS’ approach and identification of climate-related risks and opportunities. 
Climate related 
R&O
TCS Approach
Current regulation
Regulations undergo frequent changes and, to accommodate such changes, the company must be aware and 
responsive. In India operations, TCS must comply with all the environmental consent conditions around emissions, 
water discharge, waste recycling etc. These regulations are included in TCS’ risk assessment as compliance risk 
and thereafter integrated into its mitigation plans. The company also reports to the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (SEBI) mandated BRSR framework, which includes non-financial indicators and is a part of this Integrated 
Annual report. This year as per BRSR reporting requirements, TCS is also undergoing reasonable assurance for the 
core indicators of BRSR.
Emerging 
regulation
Emerging regulations including carbon taxes (coal or fossil fuel taxes leading to escalation in the electricity tariff), 
mandatory energy audits are examples which are likely to impact the company. Regulations around procurement 
of renewable energy, which is a key driver of the company’s climate change mitigation plan, is also ever evolving 
in all major geographies. TCS keeps a close watch on the emerging regulations and plans its organizational 
sustainability strategy and roadmap to adapt to those changes.
Technology
With more energy efficient and eco-friendly building and IT equipment coming in the market, keeping TCS’ offices 
eco-efficient is an ongoing process wherein the company evaluates the technology and suitability and work on 
a phaseout plan to move to the new more efficient technology. These are considered as operational risks and 
opportunities which drive the company to make its infrastructure more climate resilient.
Legal
TCS tracks environmental legal compliance (air emissions, water discharges, waste management and others) on 
periodic basis and have a very robust internal compliance management system to identify and comply with all legal 
requirements of current, amended and new regulations. While the possibility of a litigation risk is very low, climate 
change impacts can pose few risks indirectly to TCS.
Market
Climate change is driving a lot of changes in the company’s customer behaviour, thus creating new markets and 
new opportunities, giving TCS an opportunity to partner with them in their climate change mitigation journey by 
providing solutions, services, and process automation which helps in emission reduction.
Reputation
Reputational risk is relevant to the company as the investor and customer community is becoming increasingly 
aware of climate change related issues. It is important to demonstrate leadership in climate action to maintain 
reputation. Climate risks are hence included as strategic risks which is reviewed by leadership to position the 
company better in the market. This information is required to respond to CDP supply chain module and various 
customer surveys on sustainability like Dow Jones Sustainability Index, EcoVadis, MSCI, Sustainalytics, etc. 
Hence performing well in these ratings/scorings is very crucial in maintaining the market reputation which the 
organization holds.
Acute physical
Acute physical risks associated with extreme weather events is relevant as TCS has substantial operations in coastal 
cities in India which are exposed to extreme weather events like heavy precipitation, flood, and cyclones. E.g., The 
company’s offices located in coastal cities like Chennai, Bhubaneshwar, Kolkata, Kochi are exposed to physical risks 
from cyclonic events and therefore adequate mitigation plans are in place. 
