Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
49
Notice
S/N
Description   
Particulars
8.
Percentage of the Company’s annual 
consolidated turnover, for the 
immediately preceding financial year, 
that is represented by the value of the 
proposed transaction.
Maximum up to 1.9 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company for 
FY 2023-24, per annum for duration of contract
9.
Justification of the proposed transaction The Company, being a globally recognised provider of IT services participates in 
the digitisation initiatives of entities within Tata group and partners in respective 
entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During the course of rendering 
such services, the Company also leverages niche skills, capabilities and resources 
of entities within the group. These transactions aim at providing enhanced level 
of user experience to the end-consumers of Tata group and provide the entities 
within the group cutting edge technologies to sustain and grow their business.
10.
Details of the valuation report or 
external party report (if any) enclosed 
with the Notice 
Company’s governance policies with respect to negotiation with third parties 
are followed for all contracts/arrangements with related party as defined under 
SEBI Listing Regulations. These contracts/arrangements are approved by the Audit 
Committee on quarterly basis.
11.
Name of the Director or Key Managerial 
Personnel, who is related
N Chandrasekaran, Hanne Sorensen, O P Bhatt and Al-Noor Ramji
12.
Following additional disclosures to be made in case of loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given
A
Source of funds 
Not Applicable
B
In case any financial indebtedness 
is incurred to make or give loans, 
intercorporate deposits, advances or 
investment:
•	
Nature of indebtedness;
•	
cost of funds; and 
•	
tenure of the indebtedness
Not Applicable
C
Terms of the loan, inter-corporate 
deposits, advances or investment made 
or given 
(including covenants, tenure, interest 
rate and repayment schedule, whether 
secured or unsecured; if secured, the 
nature of security)
Not Applicable
D
The purpose for which the funds will be 
utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of 
such funds pursuant to the RPT
Not Applicable
13.
Any other relevant information
All important information forms part of the statement setting out material facts, 
pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act, forming part of this Notice
Item No. 7
Material Related Party Transactions with Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd., subsidiary of the Company
S/N
Description   
Particulars
1.
Name of the related party 
Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.
2.
Nature of relationship [including nature 
of its interest (financial or otherwise)]
Subsidiary of the Company which is covered under Section 2(76) of the Act and 
Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the SEBI Listing Regulations
3.
Type of the proposed transaction
(a) 	 Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and Digital 
Engineering, Digital Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, and such 
related areas 
(b) 	 Supply of hardware and software 
(c) 	 Reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services 
(d) 	 Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.
(e)	 Leasing of property 
(f) 	 Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/
requirements
