Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
302
Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
	
Transactions with key management personnel for the year ended March 31, 2023 did not include provisions for encashable leave, 
gratuity and premium paid for group health insurance, as separate actuarial valuation / premium paid were not available.
21)	 No funds have been advanced / loaned / invested (from borrowed funds or from share premium or from any other sources / kind 
of funds) by the Company to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Intermediaries), with the understanding 
(whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Intermediary shall (i) directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons 
or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or (ii) provide any 
guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
No funds have been received by the Company from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Parties), with 
the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall (i) directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or  
(ii) provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
22)	 The sitting fees and commission paid to non-executive directors is `15 crore and `13 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, 
respectively.
23)	 The Board of Directors approved post-employment benefits, payable to the outgoing CEO and Managing Director, which has been 
actuarially valued. Accordingly, the Company has recorded an expense of `48 crore during the year ended March 31, 2024.
24)	 The Indian Parliament has approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which would impact the contributions by the company 
towards Provident Fund and Gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and Employment had released draft rules for the Code on Social 
Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020. The Company will assess the impact and its evaluation once the subject rules are notified. 
The Company will give appropriate impact in its financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the 
related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
25)	 Additional Regulatory Information
	
•	
Ratios
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
Current year
Previous year
Current ratio (in times)
Total current assets
Total current liabilities
2.2
2.4
Debt-Equity ratio (in 
times)
Debt consists of borrowings 
and lease liabilities.
Total equity
0.1
0.1
Debt service coverage 
ratio (in times)
Earning for Debt Service = Net 
Profit after taxes + Non-cash 
operating expenses + Interest 
+ Other non-cash adjustments
Debt service = Interest and 
lease payments + Principal 
repayments
24.0
23.4
Return on equity ratio 
(in %)
Profit for the year less 
Preference dividend (if any)
Average total equity
59.4%
51.6%
Trade receivables 
turnover ratio (in times)
Revenue from operations
Average trade receivables
4.5
4.8
Trade payables turnover 
ratio (in times)
Cost of equipment and 
software licences + Other 
expenses
Average trade payables
3.1
3.6
Net capital turnover ratio 
(in times)
Revenue from operations
Average working capital 
(i.e. Total current assets 
less Total current liabilities)
3.8
3.5
Net profit ratio (in %)
Profit for the year
Revenue from operations
21.5%
20.5%
Return on capital 
employed (in %)
Profit before tax and finance 
costs
Capital employed = Net 
worth + Lease liabilities + 
Deferred tax liabilities
74.3%
65.2%
Return on investment 
(in %)
Income generated from 
invested funds
Average invested funds in 
treasury investments
8.3%
7.4%
