Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
98
CorporateGovernanceReport
	
	
*appointed as CEO & MD w.e.f. June 1, 2023
	
	
**ceased to be CEO & MD w.e.f. June 1, 2023
	
	
^re-appointed as Independent Director for a  
second term w.e.f. December 18, 2023
	
	
^^appointed as Independent Director w.e.f.  
October 12, 2023
	
	
^^^ceased to be Director w.e.f. January 10, 2024 upon 
completion of his term as Independent Director.
	
	
Video-conferencing facilities are also used to facilitate 
Directors travelling/residing abroad or at other 
locations to participate in the meetings.
	
vi.	
During FY 2024, information as mentioned in Part A of 
Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations, has been 
placed before the Board for its consideration.
	
vii.	 During FY 2024, one meeting of the Independent 
Directors was held on March 11, 2024. The 
Independent Directors, inter alia, reviewed the 
performance of Non-Independent Directors,  
Board as a whole and Chairman of the Company, 
taking into account the views of Executive Directors 
and Non-Executive Directors.
	
viii.	 The Board periodically reviews the compliance reports 
of all laws applicable to the Company.
	
ix.	
Details of equity shares of the Company held by the Directors as on March 31, 2024, are given below:
Name
Category
Number of equity 
shares
N Chandrasekaran
Non-Independent, Non-Executive
1,77,056
Aarthi Subramanian
Non-Independent, Non-Executive
5,600
K Krithivasan
Non-Independent, Executive
11,232
N G Subramaniam
Non-Independent, Executive
1,97,760
Keki Mistry*
Independent, Non-Executive
4,150
	
	
*includes shares held jointly with his relative
	
	
The Company has not issued any convertible instruments.
	
x.	
The Board has identified the following skills/expertise/competencies fundamental for the effective functioning of the 
Company which are currently available with the Board:
	
	
Global Business
Understanding, of global business dynamics, across various geographical markets, 
industry verticals and regulatory jurisdictions.
Strategy and Planning
Appreciation of long-term trends, strategic choices and experience in guiding and 
leading management teams to make decisions in uncertain environments.
Governance
Experience in developing governance practices, serving the best interests of all 
stakeholders, maintaining board and management accountability, building long - 
term effective stakeholder engagements and driving corporate ethics and values.
	
	
The eligibility of a person to be appointed as a Director of the Company is dependent on whether the person possesses the 
requisite skill sets identified by the Board as above and whether the person is a proven leader in running a business that 
is relevant to the Company’s business or is a proven academician in the field relevant to the Company’s business. Being an 
IT service provider, the Company’s business runs across different industry verticals, geographical markets and is global 
in nature. The Directors so appointed are drawn from diverse backgrounds and possess special skills with regard to the 
industries/fields from where they come.
