79
Management Discussion and Analysis
10	
 GRI 3-3 
11	
 GRI 201-2
Enterprise Risk Management
TCS understands the importance of effectively managing and 
mitigating risks to protect the company’s business, its clients, 
to add value for all its stakeholders, and ensuring that the 
company’s reputation is intact.
The company follows a comprehensive enterprise risk 
management framework (based on best practices from COSO 
2017 and ISO 31000:2018) that encompasses risk identification, 
risk assessment, risk response planning and actions, risk 
monitoring and overall risk governance. Fostering a risk aware 
culture and empowering leaders to take intelligent risks to 
maximize value are crucial. TCS regularly conducts risk reviews, 
assessments, and scenario planning to anticipate potential 
challenges and develop mitigation plans. Key risk indicators 
and control indicators are used to assess risks, provide early 
warnings, and consider effectiveness of the mitigation actions, 
respectively. Furthermore, the company engages with all 
stakeholders, including customers, employees, suppliers, 
partners and regulatory authorities, to ensure transparent and 
collaborative risk management practices.
TCS takes a holistic view of its enterprise risk profile, covering 
strategic, operational, compliance, financial and catastrophic 
risks, thus enabling informed decision-making.  Risks are 
assessed and managed at various levels with a top-down and 
bottom-up approach across the enterprise, business units, 
geographies, business functions, customer relationships and 
individual projects.
By proactively managing and mitigating these risks, the 
company’s aim is to ensure the long-term sustainability and 
success of the company. TCS is confident that its robust 
risk management initiatives, coupled with its commitment 
to innovation and excellence, will enable the company to 
navigate the challenges of the IT industry and capitalize on the 
opportunities that lie ahead.
Listed below are some of the key risks and opportunities, 
anticipated impact on the company and mitigation strategies. 
Key Risks (R) / 
Opportunity (O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk or opportunity, approach to adapt 
or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Volatile global 
political and 
economic 
environment (R)
Impact On: Human Capital, Financial 
Capital
•	
Geo-politics and macroeconomic 
volatility can affect demand for the 
company’s services. The Russia-Ukraine 
war and the Israel-Hamas conflict in the 
last 2 years has continued to lead to 
supply chain disruptions, energy crises, 
food and merchandise scarcities and 
impact on inflation. 
•	
Persistent high inflation in major 
economies could affect consumer 
confidence. The current high interest 
rate environment could result in 
economic slowdowns, affecting not 
only spending, but also squeezing 
liquidity.
•	
All of these could affect clients’ 
business outlook and result in 
reduced demand for TCS’ services. It 
could also increase TCS’ costs of doing 
business. 
•	
In addition, there could be risks to 
service delivery, business continuity, 
cybersecurity, sanctions compliance 
and human rights risks in geo-
politically sensitive zones, all of which 
could increase costs or affect the 
company’s revenue growth. 
•	
Broad-based business mix, well diversified 
across geographies and industry verticals.  
•	
Monitor changing geopolitical scenarios 
and strengthen internal controls to further 
safeguard against secondary risks.
•	
Country-level business continuity plans in 
place to address potential conflicts in the 
region.
•	
Offerings and value propositions targeting all 
CxOs (in addition to the CIO) in the customer 
organization.
•	
Focus on cost and optimization propositions, 
including vendor consolidation initiatives 
in the near term to improve their business 
efficiency, when the customer’s discretionary 
budgets are uncertain.
•	
Participate in the customer’s business 
transformation initiatives through breadth 
and depth of services and offerings. 
•	
Enter more long-term contracts.
•	
Proactively invest in infrastructure and 
resourcing to meet anticipated customer 
demand for flexible products, AI/GenAI 
offerings, platforms-based solutions and 
subscription-based services to gain market 
share and new clients and markets.
Negative
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
