Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
62
Directors’ Report
in use of Technology at the India Pharma Awards 2023. 
TCS was also recognized with 2 Golds and 1 Bronze at 
Stevie Asia Pacific Awards 2023 for ignio™ (Gold), TCS Data 
Privacy (Gold) and TCS Travel Chatbot “Trawiz” (Bronze). 
	
The Company’s intellectual property grew with 257 
publications and presentations in top-tier journals and 
conferences. As of March 31, 2024, 8,040 patents have 
been filed (cumulatively) by the Company and 3,919 
have been granted. TCS won many awards relating to 
IP, including the Asia IP Elite Award 2023, the National 
Intellectual Property Award 2023 in the category ‘Top 
Public Limited Company for Patents Filing, Grant & 
Commercialization in India in the field of Service/Others 
Sector’ and the World Intellectual Property Organization’s 
(WIPO) National Award for Enterprises for being an 
exemplar of IP value creation. TCS also recognized with 
CII Industrial Intellectual Property Awards 2023, Special 
Appreciation Award by CII acknowledging very special and 
distinctive features of some inspiring IP initiatives of the 
organization. 	
	
Innovating at Scale with the Ecosystem:
	
TCS PaceTM is the fulcrum of TCS’ thought leadership and 
continues to leverage pioneering innovation to steer 
businesses through emerging technologies and define  
co-innovation strategies with customers. TCS Pace PortTM 
New York engaged with customers, analysts, and partners 
during the TCS Innovation Forum North America 2023.  
TCS Pace PortTM Amsterdam hosted the analyst community 
from EU and UK region, during the TCS Europe Analyst 
Summit 2023.
	
TCS COINTM expanded its global footprint by reaching out 
to over 250 unique TCS customers this year who need 
access to new technologies from start-ups. COIN Business 
Accelerator, a high-touch program with emerging tech 
companies, kicked off its 3rd cohort. The Accelerator is 
playing an instrumental part in TCS’ ecosystem strategy, 
increasing its innovation footprint, and winning deals. 
TCS and Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) launched JLR’s Open 
Innovation program in Tel Aviv to foster disruptive mobility 
innovation and strengthen relationships between JLR and 
Israeli start-ups, scale-ups, corporate entities, investors, 
and academia as part of JLR’s Reimagine strategy. This 
partnership will leverage TCS COINTM in Israel to identify 
local technology offerings and scale them to global mobility 
solutions and services.
	
The academic network of TCS COINTM funds 42 strategic 
research project engagements across 23 academic 
institutions. TCS inaugurated a Research facility within  
the IIT Kharagpur Research Park in Kolkata this year. 
The new center will enable greater collaboration with 
IIT Kharagpur and establish TCS Research firmly within 
the Cyber Physical Systems and Digital Health research 
landscape. 
	
TCS and WIPO have joined hands to collaborate, extending 
the TCS Access Infinity platform to Accessible Books 
Consortium partner libraries in developing and least 
developed countries. TCS has strategically collaborated 
with Dassault Systèmes within the ambit of the Living 
Heart Project, fostering a collaborative environment 
encompassing cardiovascular researchers, educators, 
medical device developers and regulatory bodies such 
as the US FDA. This partnership aims to drive digital 
transformation in cardiovascular science by creating 
authentic digital simulations of the human heart. 
	
Building a Culture of Innovation:
	
TCS Research and Innovation continued with  
enterprise-wide initiatives to inspire and foster creativity 
across the domain. This year five teams from TCS made it 
to the finals of Tata Innovista 2023 and TCS won awards in 
the “Piloted technologies” and “Implemented Innovations 
– Products and Services” categories. TCS Innovista 2024, 
an internal shark-tank competition, concluded with the 
largest ever participation from TCS’ers. 12,371 teams vied 
for the top honors across multiple categories. The second 
edition of the organization wide incubation bootcamp 
was organized to encourage and support entrepreneurial 
ideas in areas of sustainability, GenAI, decentralization, 
EV ecosystems, and connected health. This year’s edition 
witnessed 126 applications across 48 business units. 
	
Digital Impact Square (DiSQ) encourages innovation using 
digital technologies to address social challenges and has 
impacted 190,543 lives across various startups in FY 2024. 
The DiSQ has been awarded with Zero Project Award 2024 
for inclusive vocational training models, inclusive education, 
and ICT. Several companies within the purview of DiSQ 
have won awards. With an aim to inspire and empower 
young minds to solve real-world environmental and 
societal challenges through technology, TCS Sustainathon 
Singapore addressed challenge statements issued by 
Dell Technologies, Citi, and LinkedIn under the theme of 
‘Empowering Women in STEM’. TCS Sustainathon South 
Africa 2023 focused on sustainable water and sanitation 
management. TCS CodeVita Season 11 received the highest 
ever registration of more than 4,44,000 from 95 countries.
	
Future course of action:
	
TCS will continue scaling its investments in IP creation, 
partnerships and offerings to deliver market leading value 
to its customers, with a focus on agility and speed to 
market that matches the fast pace of digital transformation 
of its customers are undergoing. At the same time, it will 
continue to build its talent base and focus on building a 
culture of innovation in the Company.
	
Expenditure on R&D:
	
TCS research and innovation centers are located in India 
and other parts of the world. The research centers in 
India function from Pune, Chennai, Bengaluru, Delhi-NCR, 
Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai.
