70
Management Discussion and Analysis
3	
GRI 2-22 
4	
 Ref AR FY 2012, MD&A, Pages 25, 29 
5	
 Ref AR FY 2010, Letter from CEO, Page 7
differentiated business outcomes. These solutions are delivered 
using its operating model which enables a highly distributed, 
Location Independent Agile™ delivery.
TCS geographic footprint covers North America, Latin America, 
the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, India and 
Middle-East Africa.
TCS considers industry verticals as its primary go-to-market 
business segments. The five key vertical clusters are: Banking, 
Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI), Communication, Media 
and Technology (CMT), Consumer Business, Life Sciences 
and Healthcare, Manufacturing and Others such as Energy, 
Resources and Utilities, Public Services and Products.
Strategy for Sustainable Growth3
TCS has successfully navigated through multiple technology 
cycles since its inception, transforming and adapting each time 
to build relevant new capabilities and helping its clients realize 
the benefits of that innovative technology. TCS’ responsiveness, 
agility and adaptability to change have been core to its longevity.
Customer-centricity is at the heart of TCS’ strategy, organization 
structure and investment decisions. TCS has been broadening 
and deepening customer relationships by continually looking 
for new opportunities and newer areas in their businesses to 
add value, proactively investing in building capabilities, reskilling 
its workforce, and launching innovative services, solutions, 
products, and platforms to address those opportunities. 
TCS is reinventing itself at a time of unprecedented change in 
the IT Services industry. Digital, AI and Cloud technologies are 
now business enablers, and core to the success of business, 
fueling the need for enterprise-wide transformation and 
continuous innovation. 
Technology disruption is blurring traditional industry lines, 
making cross-industry expertise an imperative. Adaptation is 
the key to survival. TCS believes in the power of inspiration 
and invention to build greater futures and help in transforming 
industries. The company’s research and innovation team apply 
scientific rigor and a collaborative mindset to solve pressing 
problems faced by industries and society. 
Over time, this strategy has resulted in deep and enduring 
customer relationships, a vibrant and engaged workforce, 
industry-leading profitability, a steady expansion of the 
addressable market, and a proven record of accomplishment in 
delivering longer term stakeholder value. 
Enabling Investments
TCS has been at the forefront of every technology adoption cycle 
over the past several decades. The company has anticipated 
every technology change and invested in innovation, talent, 
intellectual property, and partnerships well in advance. TCS 
pioneered4 the ‘Default is Digital’ approach to leverage the 
new family of technologies that emerged in the last decade. 
TCS was early to identify that decision making in enterprises 
would increase in complexity and would require novel uses of 
digital technologies. Its research into Enterprise Digital Twins 
enables it to simulate enterprises in hi-fidelity and use AI for 
decision making. Backed by 10 years of research (started in 
2013) and over 40 publications in top-tier journals, TCS launched 
an Enterprise Digital Twin product offering called TCS TwinX™. 
The multiple award-winning product today simulates enterprise 
decision making for several TCS customers.
Quick to recognize the potential of cloud, the company made 
investments ahead of time in launching new platform-based 
business models as far back as in 20095, reskilling the workforce, 
research and innovation, building collaborative workspaces 
and innovation centers, intellectual property, and alliances and 
partnerships. TCS created a separate research group focused on 
‘Deep Learning and AI’ in 2017 and identified ‘AI’ as a critical skill 
that every researcher should acquire. TCS has doubled down 
on partnerships in areas such as AI, Quantum Computing and 
Cybersecurity. These early investments have given TCS a head- 
start in being a partner in its customers’ technology adoption 
lifecycles. 
The exploration of innovative uses of GenAI has been a 
focal point for TCS Research this year. More details on TCS 
R&I investments during the year are available on Page 61 of 
Directors’ Report in the section on ‘Technology absorption, 
adoption and innovation’. 
TCS’ dedication to innovation is evident with its dynamic 
intellectual property (IP) portfolio, which saw continual 
enhancement through the filing and granting of patents and the 
publication of research papers. TCS’ IP portfolio has grown by a 
CAGR of over 13% over the past decade. TCS is the largest patent 
filer in the industry category in India and has been honored with 
42 IP awards in the last 10 years, including winning the National 
IP Award 4 times in the last 7 years. 
TCS’ dedicated practice units around major hyperscalers have 
been steadily investing in training, certifications, credentials 
and in building solutions and intellectual property on their 
respective hyperscaler stacks. AI.Cloud Academy was launched 
to bring together initiatives from all Cloud and AI partners, and  
to drive talent transformation at scale with a theme “Making AI 
REAL” for TCS’ customers. As on 31st March 2024, TCS had one 
of the world’s largest AI/ML and GenAI trained workforce. AI 
Experience Zone, TCS’s indigenous, multi-platform AI playground 
continues to develop employees with higher competencies 
in GenAI through Industry specific use cases integrated into 
programs and hackathons. One of the significant investments 
has been in building a multi modal, hyperscaler agnostic, domain 
catalogue enabled, pattern driven, multi orchestrator GenAI 
platform called TCS AI WisdomNext to help customers accelerate 
their GenAI journey.
In addition to the hyperscalers, TCS has also invested in building 
key partnerships with other major cloud and AI ecosystem 
partners, to bring best of GenAI offerings to TCS’ customers. TCS 
has invested in deep dive technical training along with hands-on 
sessions to help upskill existing employees thereby empowering 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
