Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
42
Notice
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in dematerialized 
mode with CDSL
1.	
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi/ Easiest facility, can login through their existing 
user id and password. Option will be made available to reach e-voting page without any 
further authentication. The users who to login Easi/Easiest are requested to visit CDSL 
website www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then 
use your existing my easi username & password.
2.	
After successful login the Easi/ Easiest user will be able to see the e-voting option for 
eligible companies where the e-voting is in progress as per the information provided by 
the Company. On clicking the e-voting option, the user will be able to see e-voting page 
of the e-voting service provider for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period 
or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, there is also links 
provided to access the system of all e-voting service providers, so that the user can visit 
the e-voting service providers’ website directly.
3.	
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at  
www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on 
registration option.
4.	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting page by providing Demat Account 
Number and PAN from a e-voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The 
system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & e-mail as 
recorded in the Demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see 
the e-voting option where the e-voting is in progress and also able to directly access the 
system of all e-voting service providers.
Individual Shareholders 
(holding securities in demat 
mode) login through their DPs
1.	
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your DP 
registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-voting facility. 
2.	
Once logged-in, you will be able to see the e-voting option. Once you click on 
e-voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful 
authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature.
3.	
Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider - NSDL 
and you will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the 
remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the meeting.
	
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/Password are advised to use Forgot User ID and Forgot Password 
option available at respective websites.
	
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through Depository 
i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Securities held with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request 
at evoting@nsdl.com or call at +91 22 48867000
Securities held with CDSL
Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or 
contact at toll free no. 1800225533
II) 	 Login method for e-voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
	
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
	
1.	
Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by clicking the URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a 
Personal Computer or on a mobile.
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under “Shareholder/
Member” section.
	
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, Password/OTP and a verification code as shown on the screen.
	
4.	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDeAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your 
existing IDeAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after using your login credentials, click on e-voting and you can 
proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.
