Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
214
Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
12)	 Revenue recognition
	
The Group earns revenue primarily from providing IT services, consulting and business solutions. The Group offers a consulting-
led, cognitive powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and solutions.
 	
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the 
consideration which the Group expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
	
•	
Revenue from time and material and job contracts is recognised on output basis measured by units delivered, efforts 
expended, number of transactions processed, etc. 
	
•	
Revenue related to fixed price maintenance and support services contracts where the Group is standing ready to provide 
services is recognised based on time elapsed mode and revenue is straight lined over the period of performance.
	
•	
In respect of other fixed-price contracts, revenue is recognised using percentage-of-completion method (‘POC method’) of 
accounting with contract costs incurred determining the degree of completion of the performance obligation. The contract 
costs used in computing the revenues include cost of fulfilling warranty obligations.  
	
•	
Revenue from the sale of distinct internally developed software and manufactured systems and third party software 
is recognised upfront at the point in time when the system / software is delivered to the customer. In cases where 
implementation and / or customisation services rendered significantly modifies or customises the software, these services 
and software are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognised over time on a POC method . 
	
•	
Revenue from the sale of distinct third party hardware is recognised at the point in time when control is transferred to the 
customer. 
	
•	
The solutions offered by the Group may include supply of third-party equipment or software. In such cases, revenue for 
supply of such third party products are recorded at gross or net basis depending on whether the Group is acting as the 
principal or as an agent of the customer. The Group recognises revenue in the gross amount of consideration when it is 
acting as a principal and at net amount of consideration when it is acting as an agent.  
	
Revenue is measured based on the transaction price, which is the consideration, adjusted for volume discounts, service level 
credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and incentives, if any, as specified in the contract with the customer. Revenue 
also excludes taxes collected from customers.
	
The Group’s contracts with customers could include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. The 
Group assesses the products / services promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance obligations in the contract. 
Identification of distinct performance obligation involves judgement to determine the deliverables and the ability of the customer 
to benefit independently from such deliverables.
	
Judgement is also required to determine the transaction price for the contract and to ascribe the transaction price to each 
distinct performance obligation. The transaction price could be either a fixed amount of customer consideration or variable 
consideration with elements such as volume discounts, service level credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and 
incentives. The transaction price is also adjusted for the effects of the time value of money if the contract includes a significant 
financing component. Any consideration payable to the customer is adjusted to the transaction price, unless it is a payment for 
a distinct product or service from the customer. The estimated amount of variable consideration is adjusted in the transaction 
price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will 
not occur and is reassessed at the end of each reporting period. The Group allocates the elements of variable considerations 
to all the performance obligations of the contract unless there is observable evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct 
performance obligations.
	
The Group exercises judgement in determining whether the performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time or over a period 
of time. The Group considers indicators such as how customer consumes benefits as services are rendered or who controls 
the asset as it is being created or existence of enforceable right to payment for performance to date and alternate use of such 
product or service, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, etc.
	
Contract fulfilment costs are generally expensed as incurred except for certain software licence costs which meet the criteria for 
capitalisation. Such costs are amortised over the contractual period or useful life of licence, whichever is less. The assessment of 
this criteria requires the application of judgement, in particular when considering if costs generate or enhance resources to be 
used to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to be recovered.
