Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
322
Sustainability Disclosures
of timelines. In FY 2024, TCS has further brought down its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission by 80% over base year 2016.  This was 
despite increased electricity consumption in FY 2024 from employees’ return to office and addition of new offices to the reporting 
boundary. Apart from organizational level commitments, the emerging regulations also motivate TCS to transition towards low 
carbon business. TCS will need additional CAPEX and OPEX to ensure compliance. The company has envisaged this as a risk, and 
is developing greener solutions and transitioning to renewable energy. In FY 2024, RE accounts for 74% of total energy and have 
increased percentage of green tariff.
	
i.	
TCS’ new campuses are designed according to green building standards for energy and resource efficiency to reduce the carbon 
footprint. The company invests in energy efficiency initiatives taking into consideration a payback period of 4-5 years. It is also 
retrofitting its older buildings with energy efficient equipment. 
	
ii.	
TCS’ IoT-based Real-time Energy Management System (TCS Clever Energy™) initiative that involves real time monitoring to 
optimize the operational energy efficiency is used across all offices. This smart, scalable, analytics driven IoT solution uses TCS 
Connected Universe Platform (TCUP) IoT platform, which forms the backbone enabling visualization of data acquired from 
various locations and facilities’ energy meters and sensors. 
	
iii.	
While the above initiatives were carried out across TCS India campuses, focus towards achieving Net Zero is also driven through 
carbon neutrality across Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in North America, UK and Ireland, Europe, Asia Pacific, Japan, Latin 
America, and Middle East & Africa.
c.	
Risk of Impacting Reputation and Brand Value: TCS is an IT services company working mostly with Fortune 1000 or Global 2000 
corporations and the public sector. The customer perception around climate change risks has strengthened, especially in the major 
markets, and this is reflected in the increasing customer requests on climate change performance through platforms like CDP, SBTi 
commitments, RFPs and other surveys/ questionnaires. Thus, in an event if TCS is unable to meet its climate change commitments, it 
can impact the company’s brand and reputation, as well as international ESG ratings. The risk due to the same is realized in terms of 
the company’s brand value and the risk is estimated as 0.1% of the same. In FY 2024, TCS brand value rose to US$19.2 billion (Source: 
Brand Finance). Hence, the potential financial impact due to this risk is estimated at US$19.2 million. To mitigate these impacts, the 
company has undertaken many initiatives to mitigate its environmental impact which includes green building design, energy efficient 
building and IT infrastructure, and transition to renewable energy. All the stakeholders are well informed about TCS’ climate change 
performance through its external disclosures which helps to minimize the reputational risks. 
	
TCS has identified the following climate-related opportunities with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on 
its business:
	
i.	
TCS has a large building footprint with its campuses alone covering more than 38 million sq. ft area in India. Out of this, over 67.3% 
of its buildings are certified to IGBC Green Building standards. TCS has steadily increased its portfolio of green buildings, thereby 
ensuring energy efficiency in its buildings and reducing both emissions and operating expenditures. Apart from this, the company 
is also working on improving and upgrading its energy efficiency in existing buildings. Few years back, TCS India took up a major 
project to change the luminaires to LEDs across its locations which contributed towards significant energy savings. Major retrofits 
were carried out at some locations with legacy infrastructure to improve the efficiency levels. The TCS Remote Energy Management 
and Control program witnessed rapid scaling up and further maturity during the year by leveraging IoT platform to acquire asset 
(chillers, air handling units, etc.) level data which is analyzed to improve asset efficiency and operations. The data center PUE 
(weighted average) of 1.70 was achieved for the corporate data centers at Mumbai and Chennai. In FY 2024, TCS has achieved 
a saving to the tune of 16,301 MWh due to energy saving initiatives. (This includes HVAC energy efficiency projects, UPS based 
energy efficiency projects, expansion in green buildings and real time monitoring of energy efficiency). TCS uses multiple energy 
sources in its daily operations, electricity being the primary source. Majority of the electricity comes from conventional sources, 
but TCS has increased the share of renewable electricity (RE) over the years through onsite rooftop solar generation, third party 
procurement and purchase of Energy Attribute Certificate (EAC) (in select geographies). The RE consumption as a percentage of 
total electricity consumption has increased from 15.6% in FY 2021 to 74% in FY 2024. TCS’ owned roof top solar projects contribute 
3 % of the same. Apart from roof top solar photo voltaic installations, TCS increased the renewable energy procurement through a 
switch over to green tariffs for operations and open access power purchase agreements (PPA).
	
ii.	
TCS is looking at developing solutions that respond to changing consumer behaviour. Through its Connected Marketing team, 
TCS uses sustainability in the social media perspective to better understand the ‘green’ needs of its consumers, and to also 
see how consumers are reacting to the new green products that have been introduced. Changing consumer behaviour and 
expectations are most reflective in the power utility space. Towards this area, TCS has developed several strategic partnerships, 
towards thought-leadership development and solution enhancement (Example: Smart Power and Smart Energy are key solution 
areas of TCS’ Utilities Industry Unit). 
Climate Resilience 
A brief description of the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 
2oC or lower scenario.
