Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
64
Directors’ Report
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company
	
TCS’ vision is to empower people and communities to 
build self-reliance through technology while promoting 
the values of fairness, equity, and respect for human 
rights. It endeavors to connect people and communities to 
opportunities in the digital economy by building equitable 
and inclusive pathways for women, youth, and marginalized 
groups.
	
To address the most pressing needs of the community, 
TCS primarily focuses on the areas of education, skilling, 
employment, and entrepreneurship. The Company enables 
social innovation and community projects targeted at 
marginalized sections of society, bridging the opportunity 
gap, and investing in quality education, good health and 
well-being, clean water and sanitation, climate action, 
and disaster relief efforts in support of the basic needs 
of global communities. Additionally, TCS forms strategic 
partnerships, delves into research, provides insights, and 
pro-bono technology consultation to bolster the capacity of 
grassroots organizations.
Annexure I
Annual Report on CSR Activities
	
To achieve transformational social impact, TCS leverages 
its intellectual, technological, human, and financial capital 
and applies its contextual knowledge and the expertise 
of a diverse network of leaders to design innovative and 
sustainable solutions for societal challenges. It executes and 
scales programs using its vast capabilities in technology, 
the large employee base who volunteer their time, skills, 
and expertise for causes they believe in, and impact 
investments in large-scale, sustainable, multi-year programs 
that empower communities.
	
By directing its resources toward people and communities 
that need them the most, TCS assures equitable access. 
Every CSR initiative and program by TCS aligns with the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), 
while the CSR strategy incorporates inclusion into its 
design by aligning with the Government of India and the 
Tata Group’s Affirmative Action.
 2.	 Composition of the CSR committee:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation/Nature of 
Directorship
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee held 
during the year
Number of meetings of CSR 
Committee attended during 
the year
1
N Chandrasekaran
Chairman, Non-independent 
Non-Executive Director
3
3
2
O P Bhatt
Member, Independent,  
Non-Executive Director
3
3
3
N G Subramaniam
Member, Non-Independent, 
Executive Director
3
3
3.	
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR 
committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects approved by the 
board are disclosed on the website of the Company
	
Composition of the CSR committee shared above and is 
available on the Company’s website at   
https://www.tcs.com/corporate-governance.
	
CSR policy - https://on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy
	
CSR projects -  
https://www.tcs.com/corporate-social-responsibility
4.	
Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) 
of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in 
pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, if applicable
	
Not applicable
5.	
(a)	 Average net profit of the Company as per  
sub-section (5) of Section 135: `42,507 crore
	
(b)	 Two percent of average net profit of the Company as 
per sub-section (5) of  section 135: `850 crore
	
(c)	 Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or 
programmes or activities of the previous financial 
years : NIL
	
(d)	 Amount required to be set off for the financial year, 
if any : `32 crore
	
(e)	 Total CSR obligation for the financial year [5(b)+5(c)-
5(d)]: `818 crore
6.	
(a)	 Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project 
and other than Ongoing Project): `813 crore
	
(b)	 Amount spent in Administrative Overheads:  
`14 crore 
	
(c)	 Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: 
NIL
	
(d)	 Total amount spent for the Financial Year 
[6(a)+6(b)+6(c)]: `827 crore
