Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
50
Notice
S/N
Description   
Particulars
4.
Nature, duration/tenure, material 
terms, monetary value and particulars 
of contract/arrangement
Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that 
are generally prevalent in the industry segments that the company operates 
in. Monetary value of transactions through contracts/arrangements which are 
entered for a duration up to 5 years or more, shall be subject to a maximum of 1 
percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company for FY 2023-24, per annum.
5.
Particulars of the proposed transaction
As provided in S/N 3
6.
Tenure of the transaction
Contracts/arrangements with a duration upto 5 years or more
7.
Value of the proposed transaction 
As provided in S/N 4
8.
Percentage of the Company’s annual 
consolidated turnover, for the 
immediately preceding financial year, 
that is represented by the value of the 
proposed transaction. 
(and for a RPT involving a subsidiary, 
such percentage calculated on the basis 
of the subsidiary’s annual turnover on 
a standalone basis shall be additionally 
provided)
1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company for FY 2023-24, subject to 
50 percent of the turnover of Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.
9.
Justification of the proposed transaction As per global network delivery model of TCS, the subsidiaries operating in 
respective countries enters into the contracts from customers and outsource the 
service delivery to the parent company TCS Limited.  Solutions framework along 
with trained domain experts of TCS Limited ensure delivery of high quality and 
certainty to end-customers at respective countries.
10.
Details of the valuation report or 
external party report (if any) enclosed 
with the Notice 
All contracts with related party defined as per Section 2(76) of the Act are 
reviewed for arm’s length testing by Statutory Auditors.
11.
Name of the Director or Key Managerial 
Personnel, who is related
K Krithivasan
12.
Following additional disclosures to be made in case of loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given
A
Source of funds 
Not Applicable
B
In case any financial indebtedness 
is incurred to make or give loans, 
intercorporate deposits, advances or 
investment:
•	
Nature of indebtedness;
•	
cost of funds; and 	
•	
tenure of the indebtedness
Not Applicable
C
Terms of the loan, inter-corporate 
deposits, advances or investment made 
or given 
(including covenants, tenure, interest 
rate and repayment schedule, whether 
secured or unsecured; if secured, the 
nature of security)
Not Applicable
D
The purpose for which the funds will be 
utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of 
such funds pursuant to the RPT
Not Applicable
13.
Any other relevant information
All important information forms part of the statement setting out material facts, 
pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act, forming part of this Notice.
	
Shareholders’ approval sought for the material Related Party Transactions entered during FY 2024-25 as given in Item Nos. 4 to 7, 
shall be valid up to the date of next AGM.
	
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their respective relatives, other than as mentioned above, 
are concerned or interested in the respective resolutions.
	
The said transaction(s)/contract(s)/arrangement(s) have been recommended by the Audit Committee and Board of Directors of 
the Company for consideration and approval by the Members.
	
The members may note that as per the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, all related parties (whether such related party is 
a party to the above-mentioned transactions or not), shall not vote to approve the resolutions set out at Item Nos. 4 to 7. 
	
In view of the above, Resolution Nos. 4 to 7 are placed for approval of the Members of the Company.
