Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
95
CorporateGovernanceReport
Material Topic
TCS’ Approach
Compliance to laws of the countries in which we operate, as well as global legislation such as 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Bribery Act, 2010, etc. are monitored through formal compliance 
procedures led by the Corporate compliance office. Changes to legislation are closely 
monitored, risks are evaluated and effectively managed across the business operations.
Governance, Risk and Compliance are overseen by the Compliance Officer, Chief Risk Officer 
and the Chief Human Resources Officer who report to the Chief Operating Officer and 
Executive Director (“COO & ED”), and CEO & MD respectively. At the apex level, the Audit 
Committee headed by an Independent Director oversees compliance to the TCoC, Anti-Bribery 
and Anti-Corruption Policy, Gift and Hospitality Policy and also to the external regulations. 
Tax Strategy7
TCS is committed to comply with the applicable laws and regulations, and believes in reporting 
to the respective tax authorities, relevant information that is complete and accurate, in a timely 
manner.
TCS does not engage in aggressive and contrived tax planning or tax structuring for the purpose 
of gaining tax advantages. TCS’s tax policy is to optimize the tax cost, avail tax incentives where 
available, while achieving 100 per cent compliance with the spirit as well as the letter of the 
tax laws and regulations in all countries in which it operates. Compliance is achieved through a 
robust compliance reporting and monitoring process, with a strong governance on minimizing 
the tax risk. TCS has zero tolerance towards tax evasion, or the facilitation of tax evasion, 
by itself or by its employees or vendors.
TCS maintains open and collaborative relationships with governments and tax authorities 
worldwide. Where appropriate, TCS seeks advance clearance from tax authorities on the 
proposed tax treatment of transactions, helping pre-empt future disputes.
Board Oversight of 
Sustainability Matters8
TCS’ approach to sustainable growth is built on the belief that it can expand its business by 
creating longer term value for all its stakeholders, including employees, customers, suppliers 
and local communities, while also valuing the environment. The various sustainability topics 
material to TCS are overseen by the relevant Board committees, as outlined below:
Material Sustainability Topics
Board Committee
Financial reporting, robustness of internal controls and risk 
management systems, auditor remuneration, compliance to 
policies around insider trading, whistle blower, ethics and TCoC.
Audit Committee
Risk management policy and plan, management of foreign 
exchange risks, cyber security risks, data privacy risks and 
intellectual property infringement risks.
Risk Management 
Committee
Recommend composition of Board and its committees, 
appointment/re-appointment of directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel (“KMP”), design executive directors’ remuneration, 
recommend remuneration policy for directors, executive 
team and KMP, evaluation of the performance of the Board, 
Committees and Directors.
Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee
Health and safety at the workplace, shareholder grievances and 
other sustainability initiatives.
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee
Community initiatives and Corporate Social Responsibility, 
including compliances.
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Commttee
Succession planning
TCS’ philosophy of empowering employees, its industry-leading talent retention, and a 
decentralized organization structure that devolves executive decision-making across all 
business units have resulted in a large and deep bench of leadership talent that enables robust 
succession planning and continuity and consistency in strategy. Succession planning for the top 
two leadership positions in each business unit is reviewed by senior management. Additionally, 
heads of business units carry out succession planning for key functions within their units.
Succession planning at senior management levels is reviewed by the Board. Business or unit 
heads are invited to present on specific topics at Board meetings from time to time, offering an 
opportunity to the directors to assess their values, competencies, and capabilities.
7 GRI 207-1, GRI 207-2, GRI 207-3. TCS Tax Strategy link: https://on.tcs.com/TCS-Tax-Strategy
8 GRI 2-12, GRI 2-14, GRI 2-18, GRI 2-20
