Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
67
Directors’ Report
read with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
During the period under review, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
standards etc. mentioned above.
We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with 
proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors 
and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of 
the Board of Directors that took place during the period under 
review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the 
Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at 
least seven days in advance for meetings other than those held 
at shorter notice, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining 
further information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the 
meeting.
As per the minutes, decisions at the Board Meetings were taken 
unanimously.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance 
with applicable Laws, Rules, Regulations and Guidelines etc.
We further report that during the audit period following 
events occurred which had bearing on the Company’s affairs 
in pursuance of the above referred Laws, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines, Standards etc.:
The  Company has  completed buyback of  4,09,63,855  
(Four Crore Nine Lakh  Sixty  Three Thousand Eight Hundred 
and Fifty Five) fully paid-up equity shares of face value of `1 
(Rupee One)  each  (“Equity shares”) for an aggregate amount 
not  exceeding `17,000 Crore on a proportionate basis,  through 
the Tender Offer route through the Stock Exchange mechanism 
as  prescribed under the  Securities and  Exchange Board of India 
(Buy-back of  Securities) Regulations, 2018, at `4,150 (Rupees 
Four  Thousand One Hundred and Fifty only)  per  Equity Share.
For Parikh & Associates
Company Secretaries
P. N. Parikh
Partner
FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228
 	
	
UDIN: F000327F000095202 
	
	
PR No.: 1129/2021
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 12, 2024	
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is 
annexed as Annexure A and Forms an integral part of this report.
