74
Management Discussion and Analysis
6	
 GRI 402-1
•	
PULSE: Pulse 2023 recorded an enthusiastic participation 
with more than 82% of employees taking the survey. TCS 
has achieved a Satisfaction Index of 79.0 and Engagement 
Index of 80.0.
Purposeful People Policies
Key policies introduced in FY 2024 include:
•	
Policy on Flexible Work Arrangements extended the scope 
of the existing policy to provide necessary support and 
flexibility to all employees (inclusive of fathers/non-birthing 
parents) who are primary caregivers of young children, post 
childbirth or adoption of a child. 
•	
Considering TCS has a considerable workforce below 40 
years of age, TCS encouraged employees to prioritize 
their health and fitness, and revised its TCS India Policy – 
Preventive Health Screening, to extend the scope of the 
existing policy to employees under the age of 40 years.
Employee Retention
TCS’ values-driven culture, progressive HR policies, and 
philosophy of investing in people and empowering them have 
been integral in creating a culture of belonging.   The company’s 
philosophy of grooming leadership from within and giving the 
first right of refusal to internal talent for new open positions, 
inspires higher levels of loyalty to the organization. This has 
resulted in a very strong, deeply acculturated mid-layer with 
long tenures in the company. They have played a pivotal role in 
integrating new talent and have added significant value through 
their contributions and contextual knowledge.
The company’s employee friendly policies and processes, 
collaborative and inclusive work environment, investment in 
learning platforms and providing vibrant learning and career 
growth opportunities have helped it remain a benchmark in 
talent retention. IT services’ attrition trended down throughout 
the year and was 12.5% for FY 2024. At TCS, three months’ 
notice is required from either side for termination6. 
Return to Office
TCS is built on deep engagement with its diverse and distributed 
workforce, instilling in them a sense of purpose as well as a 
sense of belonging and pride. Return to Office (RTO) is a key 
priority to better integrate new joiners and stay deeply engaged 
with all its people, thereby fostering ‘TCS Culture’ and the ‘TCS 
Way’. This is vital for employees to “experience” the workplace 
ecosystem. RTO has been the key priority to better integrate 
new joiners and stay deeply engaged with all its employees. 
TCS has approximately 55% of its employees working from the 
office on all working days of the week.
Culture and Diversity
TCS is an equal opportunity employer and has a well-defined and 
progressive Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) policy embracing 
all diversity parameters which includes gender, marital status, 
religion, race/caste, colour, age, ancestry, nationality, language, 
ethnic origin, socio-economic status, physical appearance, 
disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression 
and any other category protected by applicable law.
TCS recognizes that a diverse and inclusive workforce is 
necessary to drive innovation, foster creativity, and guide 
business strategies. Other highlights include:
•	
iExcel: TCS’ flagship executive leadership development 
program for women completed 24 editions, benefiting over 
1,700 women leaders.
•	
Client engagement: Allies of Diversity is a program where 
senior leadership from client organizations are invited to 
share diversity best practices. Engagement with 100 C-Suite 
leaders and 80 different client organizations has been 
completed to date. 
•	
Education and Sensitization: TCS has mandatory online 
training designed to sensitize employees on key concepts 
of DEI.  More than 500,000 employees completed this in FY 
2024.
•	
Employee Resource Groups: Platforms for under-
represented communities and their allies to share 
concerns, experiences, stories and strategic solutions. TCS 
has 13 voluntary, employee-led groups that have come 
together based on shared diversity identity characteristics 
or interest. 
•	
Champions of Equity: This campaign was created to ensure 
a fair and inclusive culture in the workplace. A Champion of 
Equity is someone who treats everyone with fairness and 
transparency and holds a strength-based approach towards 
every individual, culture, and system. 
•	
Supplier Diversity: TCS has a Supplier Diversity Program 
that identifies certified diverse suppliers that can provide 
competitive, high-quality goods and services whose business 
model is aligned with the company’s business strategy. 
Occupational Health and Safety
TCS has a well-defined Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) 
policy and supporting processes to ensure the safety and 
well-being of its employees. Safety lead and lag indicators 
are measured across the organization and reported. The 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee in the Board reviews the 
company’s health and safety performance half-yearly. 89.6% of 
the workforce is represented in joint management-employee 
health and safety committees that monitor, advise, and drive 
occupational, health and safety initiatives. 
TCS is certified to ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health and 
Safety Management System standard across 129 of its facilities 
worldwide covering 84.9% of delivery centers corresponding 
to 89.6% of people footprint operating from these locations. 
General safety awareness (fire safety, office safety, road safety 
etc.) and safety incident reporting awareness was provided to 
employees through monthly themes and campaign initiatives. 
The company continued to focus on creating ergonomic 
awareness including correct postures and workstation stretches 
for an office-based work environment through the ergonomic 
campaigns and periodic webinars. There were also several 
fitness programs, including yoga and meditation practices, 
mental health and wellbeing which drew employee participation.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
