Digital Empowers is a collaborative platform of impact that 
brings renowned industry experts, business leaders, 
government oﬃcials, non-proﬁt organizations, and academia 
together from across the world. Being a thought leadership 
initiative, the ingenuity and resources of the private sector, the 
innovative capacity of technologists, and the collective assets 
of governments, non-proﬁt organizations, and civil society are 
brought together to create social impact.
The platform fosters innovation, drives societal growth, and 
unlocks the potential of the digital age, allowing community 
leaders to co-create and co-innovate solutions for social 
impact.
Through the 11 dynamic convenings and forums, attended by 
around 1877 visionary leaders over the last year, TCS has 
driven impactful conversations and collaborations on pressing 
issues including, bridging the digital divide, informing national 
policies in India to promote education and entrepreneurship, 
and equipping adults and the youth with AI. A comprehensive 
report was released to highlight key digital empowerment 
insights and advancements from the past year. 
The Power of Digital Transformation:
Inspiring Collaboration and Empowering Change
Digital Empowers 
Business with Purpose (BwP) is an accelerator for social good 
and creates impact-driven ‘Purpose Partnerships’ through its 
unique framework. These partnerships address societal needs 
including education, skill development, and employment with 
TCS’ customers, Tata Group companies, and other 
like-minded organizations. Business with Purpose helps 
partner organizations meet their purpose commitment and 
give back to society. This provides collaborating organizations 
social positive opportunities in sync with their community 
goals.
TCS leverages its expertise to develop contextual solutions for 
pressing societal issues and fosters partnerships with 
customer leaders to generate wide-reaching, long-term, and 
sustainable impact. Bringing the company’s strategic 
programs, like go Innovate Together (goIT), Ignite My Future 
(IMF), and Youth Employment Program (YEP) to Purpose 
Partnerships helps TCS serve underserved communities 
further.
In FY 2024, more than 345 customer leaders, including 70 
senior executives, participated in diﬀerent Corporate Social 
Responsibility initiatives, globally. 
Business with Purpose (BwP)
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
124
Corporate Social Responsibility
Non-proﬁts are enabled to use technology to enhance their 
reach and become sustainable.
Working closely with key stakeholders, TCS understands 
their needs and builds software tools to help them establish 
a digital presence, build operational transparency, raise 
funds easily, and improve eﬃciency. Tech4HOPE has 
generated millions of dollars of ‘social value’ since its 
inception.
In Australia, the Indigenous population is most aﬀected by 
urbanization. According to the Closing the Gap report, 
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people have on 
average shorter lifespan of 10-17 years, primarily due to 
lack of proper nutrition. Using environmentally sustainable 
technology, TCS developed a website for Food Ladder, an 
organization that provides communities access to fresh, 
nutrient-rich produce. The development of this new 
website enables Food Ladder to reach anyone, anywhere, 
and on any device.
TCS provided pro bono data governance consulting services 
to First Book, a non-proﬁt based in Washington, D.C., that 
provides books and other resources to classrooms, 
libraries, and programs serving children in need. Through a 
deep-dive inquiry, TCS recommended quick-to-implement 
improvements and long-term strategic solutions to bring 
First Book’s data governance eﬀorts up to best-practice 
standards. It marked a beneﬁcial step in helping First Book 
ensure stronger stakeholder relations and greater 
availability of funding and books for the children.
TCS has joined forces with the KidsRights Foundation in 
Amsterdam to introduce an innovative digital platform 
aimed at inspiring young changemakers and promoting 
awareness of children's rights. The platform, named State 
of Youth Kids, was launched globally in September 2023. 
The edutainment platform expands on the existing 
KidsRights’ platform for youth between the ages of 12 to 24 
years and now oﬀers a dedicated space for children aged 6 
to 12 years, who have the passion and courage to learn 
how to change the world for the better. The free learning 
portal provides age-tailored videos about the most pressing 
issues faced by the youth such as bullying, food waste, 
sexism, physical punishment, mental health, greenhouse 
gases, and more. 
Leaders with Purpose (LwP) is a nine-month immersive civic 
leadership learning and practice journey. It is designed to 
nurture the skills of TCS employees to lead societal change. 
The program equips participants with leadership, 
communication, and project management skills required for a 
sustained commitment to social impact. Through interactive 
classes and capstone projects, LwP cultivates a sense of social 
responsibility among participants. Upon graduating, 
participants are empowered to conduct their professional 
lives focusing on generating positive social change.
Leaders with Purpose (LwP)
In FY 2024, 65 “LwP’s” from Canada and the U.S. and 11 from 
U.K & Ireland graduated after intense in-classroom and online 
learning, followed by ﬁve months of hands-on work on 
real-world social impact projects. 
