CUSTOMER
S T O R I E S
Connecting India, Faster: BSNL 
4G/5G Network roll-out 
Post the satisfactory evaluation of the indigenous telecom 
stack, BSNL awarded TCS the mandate to supply, install and 
commission the pan India 4G/5G mobile network across 
100,000 sites. The contract involves the following key 
dimensions:
•	
Establishing modern cloud native data centers with 
geographical redundancies for each of the four zones 
and about 30+ edge data centers closer to the clients.
In response to the Government of India’s ‘Atmanirbhar 
Bharat’ call, TCS collaborated with Centre for Development 
of Telematics (C-DOT) and Tejas Networks Limited (Tejas) to 
design and develop an indigenous telecom stack. This complex 
initiative was undertaken with significant efforts to design the 
equipment, establish a lab and testing infrastructure of scale 
besides building the entire manufacturing ecosystem in India. 
The resultant solution of EPC Core, RAN, IMS, and the cognitive 
NMS was proven by integrating it in the state-owned Bharat 
Sanchar Nigam Limited’s (BSNL) existing network through a 
well-structured proof of concept. The indigenously designed 
equipment are programmable and the overall network will be 
‘Software Defined’ and highly configurable. With this, India 
became only the fifth country in the world to have developed 
this complex technology end to end.
•	
Deploying the EPC Core and IMS software supplied by 
C-DOT integrating it with the existing BSNL landscape 
in a high scalable cloud architecture along with TCS’ 
Cognitive Network Operations (CNOPS) to efficiently 
manage and configure the network.
•	
Install, commission, and optimize the Radios (RAN) 
meeting the specifications of BSNL and global 
standards, supplied by Tejas.
•	
Extend Operations and Maintenance support to the 
network on an on-going basis.
This project is governed as a ‘mission-mode’ project by TCS, 
BSNL and the Department of Telecommunications. As of 
April 2024, TCS has delivered 11,000 sites and are well on its 
way to complete the roll-out by end of this year. BSNL has 
already added to the scope another 22,000 sites to further 
densify the coverage and to include ‘saturation’ sites. This 
is to ensure digital inclusivity to rural and remote areas of 
India.
This is a historic and significant leap towards bridging the 
digital divide, ushering in the benefits of a powerful voice 
and data network to all corners of the country. With this, 
TCS along with its partners is enabling BSNL to enhance 
its competitiveness, increase revenues, offer a compelling 
enterprise proposition, and explore new business 
opportunities. 
Customer Stories
  
28
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
