Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
41
Notice
be able to cast their vote without having to register again with the e-voting service provider (“ESP”) thereby not only facilitating 
seamless authentication but also ease and convenience of participating in e-voting process. Shareholders are advised to update 
their mobile number and e-mail ID with their DPs to access e-voting facility.
	
Login method for individual shareholders holding securities in dematerialized mode is given below:
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in dematerialized 
mode with NSDL
A.	
 NSDL IDeAS facility 
	
If you are already registered, follow the below steps
	
1.	
Visit the e-Services website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. 
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon 
under “Login” which is available under “IDeAS” section. 
	
3.	
A new screen will open. You will need to enter your User ID and Password. After 
successful authentication, you will be able to see e-voting services. 
	
4.	
Click on “Access to e-voting” appearing on the left-hand side under e-voting services 
and you will be able to see e-voting page. 
	
5.	
Click on options available against Company name or e-Voting service provider - NSDL 
and you will be re-directed to NSDL e-voting website for casting your vote during the 
remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the meeting.
	
If you are not registered, follow the below steps
	
a. 	
Option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com. 
	
b. 	
Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click at https://on.tcs.com/NSDLRegn. 
	
c. 	
Please follow steps given above in points 1-5. 
B.	
e-voting website of NSDL
	
1.	
Open web browser and type the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ 
either on a personal computer or on a mobile phone. 
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which 
is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
	
3.	
A new screen will open. You will need to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit 
demat account number held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as 
shown on the screen. 
	
4.	
After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL website wherein you 
can see e-voting page. Click on options available against Company name or e-voting 
service provider - NSDL and you will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for 
casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and 
e-voting during the meeting.
C.	
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by 
scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
