Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
186
Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
1)	
Corporate information
	
Tata Consultancy Services Limited (“the Company”) and 
its subsidiaries (collectively together with employee 
welfare trusts referred to as “the Group”) provide IT 
services, consulting and business solutions and have been 
partnering with many of the world’s largest businesses 
in their transformation journeys. The Group offers a 
consulting-led, cognitive powered, integrated portfolio of 
IT, business and engineering services and solutions. This is 
delivered through its unique Location-Independent Agile 
delivery model recognised as a benchmark of excellence in 
software development.
	
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and 
domiciled in India. The address of its corporate office is TCS 
House, Raveline Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400001. As at March 
31, 2024, Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding company 
owned 71.74% of the Company’s equity share capital. 
	
The Board of Directors approved the consolidated financial 
statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 and 
authorised for issue on April 12, 2024.
2)	
Statement of compliance
	
These consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting 
Standards (referred to as “Ind AS”) prescribed under 
section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as 
amended from time to time.
3)	
Basis of preparation
	
These consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared on historical cost basis except for certain financial 
instruments and defined benefit plans which are measured 
at fair value or amortised cost at the end of each reporting 
period. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of 
the consideration given in exchange for goods and services. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. All 
assets and liabilities have been classified as current and 
non-current as per the Group’s normal operating cycle. 
Based on the nature of services rendered to customers 
and time elapsed between deployment of resources 
and the realisation in cash and cash equivalents of the 
consideration for such services rendered, the Group has 
considered an operating cycle of 12 months.   
	
The statement of cash flows has been prepared under 
indirect method, whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the 
effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals 
or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or 
payments and items of income or expense associated 
with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows 
from operating, investing and financing activities of the 
Group are segregated. The Group considers all highly liquid 
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts 
of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 
value to be cash equivalents.
	
The functional currency of the Company and its Indian 
subsidiaries is the Indian Rupee (`). The functional currency 
of foreign subsidiaries is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates. 
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at exchange 
rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. Foreign 
currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities 
are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing on the 
balance sheet dates and exchange gains and losses arising 
on settlement and restatement are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in 
foreign currencies are not retranslated.
	
The material accounting policy information related to 
preparation of the consolidated financial statements have 
been discussed in the respective notes.
4)	
Basis of consolidation
	
The Company consolidates all entities which are controlled 
by it.
	
The Company establishes control when; it has power over 
the entity, is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns 
from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to 
affect the entity’s returns by using its power over relevant 
activities of the entity.
	
Entities controlled by the Company are consolidated from 
the date control commences until the date control ceases.
	
The results of subsidiaries acquired, or sold, during the year 
are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition and 
up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
	
The financial statements of the Group companies are 
consolidated on a line-by-line basis and all inter-company 
transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated in full on consolidation.
	
Changes in the Company’s interests in subsidiaries that do 
not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity 
transactions. The carrying amount of the Company’s 
interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted 
to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the 
subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which 
the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value 
of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly 
in equity and attributed to shareholders of the Company.
	
Assets and liabilities of entities with functional currency 
other than the functional currency of the Company have 
been translated using exchange rates prevailing on the 
balance sheet date. Statement of profit and loss of such 
entities has been translated using weighted average 
exchange rates. Translation adjustments have been 
reported as foreign currency translation reserve in the 
statement of changes in equity. When a foreign operation 
is disposed off in its entirety or partially such that control, 
significant influence or joint control is lost, the cumulative 
