Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
177
Consolidated Financial Statements
	
	
e.	
The interim dividend declared and paid by the 
Holding Company during the year and until the 
date of this audit report is in accordance with 
Section 123 of the Act.
	
	
	
The final dividend paid by the Holding Company 
and its subsidiary companies incorporated in 
India during the year in respect of the same 
declared for the previous year is in accordance 
with Section 123 of the Act to the extent it 
applies to payment of dividend.
	
	
	
As stated in Note 30 to the financial statements, 
the Board of Directors of the Holding Company 
have proposed final dividend for the year which 
is subject to the approval of the members at the 
ensuing Annual General Meeting. The dividend 
declared is in accordance with Section 123 of 
the Act to the extent it applies to declaration of 
dividend.
	
	
f.	
The reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 is applicable 
from 1 April 2023.
	
	
	
Based on our examination which included 
test checks, and as communicated by the 
respective auditor of three subsidiaries, except 
for the instances mentioned below, the 
Holding Company and its subsidiary companies 
incorporated in India have used accounting 
softwares for maintaining its books of account, 
which have a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility and the same has operated 
throughout the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the respective softwares:
	
	
	
i.	
In case of the Holding Company and its 
three subsidiary companies incorporated 
in India, the feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility was not enabled at the 
database level to log any direct data changes 
for the accounting softwares used for 
maintaining the books of account relating 
to payroll and certain non-editable fields/
tables of the accounting software used for 
maintaining general ledger.
	
	
	
ii.	
In case of the Holding Company, the feature 
of recording audit trail (edit log) facility was 
not enabled at the database level to log 
any direct data changes for the accounting 
software used for maintaining the books of 
account relating to consolidation.
	
	
	
iii.	
In case of the Holding Company and its 
three subsidiary companies incorporated 
in India, the feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility was not enabled at the 
application layer of the accounting softwares 
relating to revenue, trade receivables and 
general ledger for the period 1 April 2023 to 
13 November 2023 and relating to property, 
plant and equipment for the period 1 April 
2023 to 14 December 2023. Further, in case 
of a subsidiary incorporated in India, the 
feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility was not enabled at the application 
layer of the accounting software relating 
to payroll for the period 1 April 2023 to 15 
February 2024.
	
	
	
iv.	
In case of a subsidiary incorporated in India, 
as communicated by the auditor of such 
subsidiary, the feature of recording audit 
trail (edit log) facility of the accounting 
software used for maintaining general ledger 
was not enabled for the period 1 April 2023 
to 30 April 2023.
	
	
	
Further, for the periods where audit trail (edit log) 
facility was enabled and operated throughout 
the year for the respective accounting softwares, 
we did not come across any instance of the audit 
trail feature being tampered with.
	
C.	
With respect to the matter to be included in the 
Auditor’s Report under Section 197(16) of the Act:
	
	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid 
during the current year by the Holding Company to 
its directors is in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 197 of the Act. The remuneration paid to any 
director by the Holding Company is not in excess of 
the limit laid down under Section 197 of the Act. The 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India have not 
paid any remuneration to its directors during the year. 
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed 
other details under Section 197(16) of the Act which 
are required to be commented upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place : Mumbai
Membership No: 060154
Date : 12 April 2024
ICAI UDIN: 24060154BKFDHA1961
