Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
183
Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
Nature and purpose of reserves
(a)	 Capital reserve
	
The Group recognises profit and loss on purchase, sale, 
issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments 
to capital reserve. 
(b)	 Capital redemption reserve
	
As per Companies Act, 2013, capital redemption reserve 
is created when company purchases its own shares out of 
free reserves or securities premium. A sum equal to the 
nominal value of the shares so purchased is transferred 
to capital redemption reserve. The reserve is utilised 
in accordance with the provisions of section 69 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
(c)	 Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
	
The Special Economic Zone (SEZ) re-investment reserve is 
created out of the profit of eligible SEZ units in terms of 
the provisions of section 10AA(1)(ii) of the Income-tax Act, 
1961. The reserve will be utilised by the Group for acquiring 
new assets for the purpose of its business as per the terms 
of section 10AA(2) of Income-tax Act, 1961.
(d)	 Retained earnings
	
This reserve represents undistributed accumulated 
earnings of the Group as on the balance sheet date.
(e)	 Statutory reserve
	
Statutory reserves are created to adhere to requirements of 
applicable laws and will be utilised in accordance with the 
said laws.
(f)	
Investment revaluation reserve
	
This reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses 
arising on the revaluation of equity and debt instruments 
on the balance sheet date measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income. The reserves accumulated 
will be reclassified to retained earnings and profit and loss 
respectively, when such instruments are disposed.
(g)	 Cash flow hedging reserve
	
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative 
effective portion of gains or losses arising on changes in 
fair value of designated portion of hedging instruments 
entered into for cash flow hedges. Such gains or losses will 
be reclassified to statement of profit and loss in the period 
in which the underlying hedged transaction occurs.
(h)	 Foreign currency translation reserve
	
The exchange differences arising from the translation of 
financial statements of foreign operations with functional 
currency other than Indian Rupee is recognised in other 
comprehensive income and is presented within equity in 
the foreign currency translation reserve.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
K Krithivasan 
CEO and Managing Director 
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
