The signing of the Swiss Securities Clearing 
Corporation (SECOM) deal in 1989, marked 
TCS’ entry on the global stage, competing 
with a select set of large consulting firms for 
executing large, complex programs involving 
deep domain expertise. SIX’ mission critical 
core platform was originally built by TCS, and 
was one of the world’s first online real-time 
settlement systems.
Q2
Selected by BSNL, state-owned telecom 
operator of Government of India, 
to roll out a modern 4G/5G mobile 
communication infrastructure across 
India covering 100K telecom sites, as part 
of its efforts to build indigenous telecom 
technology and local manufacturing of 
the telecom gear. 
Partnered with JLR, a large UK based 
multinational automobile company, to 
accelerate digital transformation across its business, 
TCS will deliver a broad range of services spanning application 
development & maintenance, enterprise infrastructure 
management, cloud migration, cybersecurity, and data services. 
TCS will help JLR transform to a leaner and scalable operating 
model with a future-ready digital core, by leveraging new 
technologies to transform IT operations and adopting new ways 
of working.
Choosen by British Council, the UK’s international organization 
for educational opportunities and cultural relations, to transform 
its professional services function that includes Finance, 
Procurement, Human Resources and Digital & Technology. TCS 
will leverage its contextual knowledge, deep domain expertise 
and proprietary platforms to help develop more innovative 
and user-friendly services. The partnership will also enable the 
British Council to focus on improving the quality and efficiency 
of services, ultimately leading to an enhanced customer 
experience. 
Selected as a strategic partner by the Government of India to 
transform the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) platform, into 
a world-class platform. The project will enable growth and scale, 
improve inclusivity for MSME enterprises, enhance data analytics 
for improved supply-chain operations and provide enriched user 
experience through innovation and domain expertise of TCS.
Partnered with SIX, the operator of the Swiss and Spanish 
financial market infrastructures, to transform its post trade 
market infrastructure, which offers greater flexibility, security, 
and ease of maintenance and its modern, cloud-ready 
architecture can also integrate more easily with digital 
ecosystems, opening-up possibilities of innovative new products 
and services. The program is more scalable and currently 
processes more than 4 million transactions per day, covering 
more than 60 global markets.
The Year Gone By
  
13
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
