Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
44
Notice
Further Members can also use the OTP based login for 
logging into the e-voting system of NSDL.
	
2.	
Facility of joining the AGM through VC/OAVM shall 
open 30 minutes before the time scheduled for the 
AGM.
	
3.	
Members who need assistance before or during the 
meeting, can contact NSDL on evoting@nsdl.com  
+91 22 48867000 or contact Amit Vishal, Deputy  
Vice President – NSDL at evoting@nsdl.com or  
Sanjeev Yadav, Assistant Manager-NSDL at  
sanjeevy@nsdl.com
	
4.	
Members who would like to express their views or ask 
questions during the AGM may register themselves as a 
speaker by sending their request from their registered 
e-mail address mentioning their name, DP ID and Client 
ID/Folio number, PAN, mobile number at  
tcsagm.speakers@tcs.com from Saturday, May 25, 2024 
(9:00 a.m. IST) to Monday, May 27, 2024 (5:00 p.m. IST). 
Those Members who have registered themselves as a 
speaker will only be allowed to express their views/ask 
questions during the AGM. The Company reserves the 
right to restrict the number of speakers depending on 
the availability of time for the AGM. 
	
Other Instructions
	
1.	
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion 
of voting at the AGM, unblock the votes cast through 
remote e-voting (votes cast during the AGM and 
votes cast through remote e-voting) and will submit 
a consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report of the total votes 
cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or 
a person authorised by him in writing, who shall 
countersign the same. The results will be announced 
within the time stipulated under the applicable laws.
	
2.	
The result declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report 
shall be placed on the Company’s website  
www.tcs.com and on the website of NSDL  
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com immediately.  
The Company shall simultaneously forward the results 
to National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE 
Limited, where the shares of the Company are listed.
By order of the Board of Directors
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
 Company Secretary
	
	
	
	
	
Membership No. ACS 7016
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
Registered Office:
9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point,  
Mumbai 400 021
CIN: L22210MH1995PLC084781
Tel: +91 22 6778 9595
Email: investor.relations@tcs.com
Website: www.tcs.com
	
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. 
assent or dissent, verify or modify the number of 
shares for which you wish to cast your vote and click 
on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.
	
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed and you will receive 
a confirmation by way of a SMS on your registered 
mobile number. 
	
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you 
by clicking on the print option on the confirmation 
page.
	
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will 
not be allowed to modify your vote.
	
General Guidelines for shareholders
	
1.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your 
password with any other person and take utmost 
care to keep your password confidential. Login 
to the e-voting website will be disabled upon five 
unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct password. 
In such an event, you will need to go through the 
“Forgot User Details/Password?” or “Physical User 
Reset Password?” option available on https://www.
evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.
	
2.	
In case of any queries related to e-voting, you may 
refer the Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”) 
for Shareholders and e-voting user manual for 
Shareholders available at the download section of 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on  
+91 22 48867000 or send the request to Pallavi 
Mhatre, Senior Manager, NSDL at evoting@nsdl.com
	
3.	
Members may send a request to evoting@nsdl.com 
for procuring User ID and password for e-voting by 
providing demat account number / Folio number, 
client master or copy of Consolidated Account 
statement, PAN (self-attested scanned copy of PAN 
card), AADHAAR (self-attested scanned copy of 
Aadhaar Card). If you are an Individual shareholder 
holding securities in demat mode, you are requested 
to refer to the login method explained above.
	
4.	
The instructions for members for e-voting on the day 
of the AGM are mentioned in point number 19(A).
(B)	 INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING THE AGM 
THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER
	
1.	
Members will be able to attend the AGM through VC/
OAVM or view the live webcast of AGM provided by 
NSDL at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com following the 
steps mentioned above for login to NSDL e-voting 
system. After successful login, you can see VC/OAVM 
link placed under Join meeting menu against company 
name. You are requested to click on VC/OAVM link 
placed under “Join Meeting” menu.
	
	
Members who do not have the User ID and Password 
for e-voting or have forgotten the User ID and 
Password may retrieve the same by following the 
remote e-voting instructions mentioned in the Notice. 
