Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
108
CorporateGovernanceReport
Particulars
Statutes
Details
Website link for 
details/policy
Code of Conduct
Regulation 17 of 
the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
The members of the Board and Senior Management 
Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code 
of Conduct applicable to them during the year ended 
March 31, 2024. A certificate by the CEO and MD, on the 
compliance declarations received from the members of 
the Board and Senior Management forms part of this 
report.
https://www.tcs.com/
tata-code-of-conduct
Dividend Distribution 
Policy
Regulation 43A 
of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
A regular annual dividend generally consists of three 
interim dividends after each of the first three quarters of 
the fiscal year, topped up with a final dividend after the 
fourth quarter.
In addition, every second or third year, the accumulated 
surplus cash has been returned to shareholders through 
a special dividend.
https://on.tcs.com/
Dividend 
Terms of Appointment of 
Independent Directors
Regulation 46 
of SEBI Listing 
Regulations and 
Section 149 read 
with Schedule IV 
to the Act
Terms and conditions of appointment/re-appointment 
of Independent Directors are available on the Company’s 
website.
https://on.tcs.com/
ApptID 
Familiarization Program
Regulation 25(7) 
and 46 of SEBI 
Listing Regulations
Details of familiarization program imparted to 
Independent Directors are available on the Company’s 
website.
https://on.tcs.com/
familiarization-programme
Disclosure under the 
Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2018
Section 134 of 
the Act, read 
with Rule 8 of 
the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 
2014
The details have been disclosed in the Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report forming part of 
the Integrated Annual Report.
Disclosure of certain type 
of agreements binding 
listed entities
Schedule III, Para 
A, Clause 5A of 
Listing Regulations 
There are no agreement impacting management or 
control of the Company or imposing any restriction or 
create any liability upon the Company.
VIII.	Means of Communication
	
The quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results of the Company are published in leading newspapers in India which include, 
The Indian Express, Financial Express, Loksatta, Business Standard, The Hindu Business Line, Hindustan Times and Sandesh. 
The results are also displayed on the Company’s website www.tcs.com. 
	
Statutory notices are published in The Free Press Journal, Business Standard, The Economic Times and Navshakti. The Company 
also issues press releases from time to time. Financial Results, Statutory Notices, Press Releases and Presentations made to the 
institutional investors/analysts after the declaration of the quarterly, half-yearly and annual results are submitted to the National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) and BSE Limited (“BSE”) as well as uploaded on the Company’s website. Frequently Asked 
Questions (FAQs) giving details about the Company and its shares is uploaded on the Company’s website https://www.tcs.com/
investor-relations. The Management Discussion and Analysis Report is a part of the Integrated Annual Report.
IX.	 General shareholder information
	
i.	
Annual General Meeting for FY 2024
Date
:
May 31, 2024
Time
:
3:00 p.m. (IST)
Venue
:
Meeting is being conducted through VC/OAVM pursuant to the MCA General Circulars dated May 5, 2020, read with 
general circulars dated April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020, the latest being September 25, 2023. For details, please refer to 
the Notice of this AGM.
	
	
As required under Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard 2 on General Meetings, 
particulars of Director seeking re-appointment at this AGM are given in the Annexure to the Notice of this AGM.
