AI and GenAI
S T O R I E S
The warranty claims received by a global manufacturer of 
engines and power system products, for its service network 
included a mix of structured data, narratives/ notes. The notes 
were used by experts to determine the validity and the warrant-
able items in a manually adjudicated claim process. In auto 
adjudicated claims, there were certain anomalous claims that 
got cleared for payment if met the criteria of a standard claim.
TCS conceptualized and implemented an Intelligent adjudication 
and anomaly detection solution that automated the review of 
all claims using Machine Learning for structured data, Natural 
Language Processing for unstructured data and a scenario-based 
modelling approach for anomalies, in combination with business 
rules to provide informed inference to adjudicators or adjust 
claims wherever apparent before further adjudication.
TCS solution provides a scalable model for all types of claims 
including traceability needed for decision support, and could 
automate 91% of claims’ approval, resulting in efficient 
utilization of adjudicator’s time and improved realization time 
for the service providers. The solution delivered an increase 
in productivity hours, an annual savings of over US$5 million 
in terms of warranty costs and identification of anomalous 
claims.
Warranty Claims Anomaly 
Detection Solution 
Travel better with a Next GenAI Solution
A leading North American airline customer wanted to drive 
operational efficiency throughout the airport operations control 
domain by enabling key stakeholders with operations information 
in real time. In addition, their objective was also to improve 
customer experience through next GenAI technologies.
For all US airlines, 116 million are the delayed minutes every 
year. With an average of 100 passengers on each flight, this 
results in 11.6 billion minutes of passenger delays and frustration. 
Travel better during delays was the core around which the airline 
customer and TCS embarked on a GenAI journey to help their 
end customers reach their destination by seamlessly capturing 
contextual data along with their preferences. TCS’ solution 
provided a conversational experience to deliver contextualized 
personalized message while apologizing for the flight delay, 
leveraging GenAI to ask about preferences including final location, 
drive time, earliest arrival, or least waiting time along with an 
end-to-end integration to provide options and rebooking for a 
seamless passenger experience.
The boarding twin continuously monitors boarding progress and 
its deviations in real time by merging camera vision data with 
enterprise events and contextualizing the user experience with 
proactive and relevant notifications on boarding progress of all 
flights.
Customer Stories
  
33
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
