Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
140
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
	
OHS targets and performance:
Objectives
Goals
Indicator
Target
Performance in FY24 (Target 
achieved Yes / No)
Incident reporting and 
implementation of 
remedial measures
Reporting of 
workplace safety 
observations and 
near miss cases
Number of cases
Increase in number of 
reporting
Yes. 53.9% increase in 
reporting of near-misses 
and safety observations 
compared to previous year, 
due to increased awareness 
amongst employees
Building a safety 
culture and inculcating 
safe work practices 
among associate & 
facility management 
contractors
Providing training 
for associate and 
contractors
Hours of training for 
associates
1 hour per associate 
per year
Yes. 1 hour per associate per 
year (mandatory OHS web-
based training)
Hours of training for 
contract staff
2 hours per contract 
staff per year
Yes. 4.9 hours of training per 
contract staff achieved in the 
year
Creating general OHS 
awareness
Number of awareness 
communication
1 awareness 
communication per 
quarter
Yes. Communication on OHS 
campaigns done once a 
quarter
Number of awareness 
campaign
1 awareness campaign 
per quarter
Yes. One campaign per 
quarter
Providing safe 
workplaces
H&S inspections for 
all the sites
Number of inspections
Annual inspection per 
site
Yes. 1 inspection at each site.
	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the 
entity53?
	
	
As a part of its ISO 45001:2018 compliant Occupational Health and Safety Management System, TCS has a documented 
procedure to carry out assessment of work-related hazards and risks for all routine and non-routine activities carried out at 
any location. Hazard and risk identification is carried out by the process owners in consultation with the safety experts. The 
process owners are responsible to ensure adequate controls are identified and implemented to control the identified OHS 
risks. Mitigation plan and controls are provided to eliminate the identified hazards and risks.
	
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks. 
(Y/N)53
	
	
Yes. TCS has a safety incident reporting and management process to ensure that all work-related incidents (which include 
accidents, near-misses, unsafe conditions and unsafe acts) are reported and closed after taking necessary corrective 
actions. This is enabled through an online safety incident reporting tool which is accessible to all TCS employees to facilitate 
transparent reporting. The platform also supports incident investigation and corrective action with the perspective of 
eliminating hazards and preventing incidents. The awareness to employees on incident reporting is created during induction, 
mandatory OHS web-based training (WBT) and communication through mailers during monthly theme on incident 
reporting. The action owners are also sensitized on the importance of taking corrective action within given timelines with 
the perspective of eliminating hazards and ensuring mitigation plan is implemented. TCSers can also report their health and 
safety related issues or concerns through an internal Admin Helpdesk and these issues are resolved by the concerned action 
owner within prescribed timelines. They can also e-mail their concerns to the Corporate HSE e-mail ID and communicate 
with local health and safety teams.
	
d.	
 Do the employees of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)54
	
	
Yes. TCS recognizes that overall physical and mental wellbeing of its employees is integral to its success and growth 
aspirations. TCS has taken a holistic approach to well-being to cover mental health, ergonomic health, physical health, 
delivered through digital channels, hospital insurance services, occupational health services and through seamless 
integration of all stakeholders.
	
	
TCS has occupational health centers (OHC) at TCS facilities in India. The employees and contractors at these facilities have 
access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services as well. During the year, TCS facilitated several virtual specialist 
consultations with gynecologists, and gastroenterologists with whom employees can book pre-scheduled appointments and 
avail the services. These consulting services have helped employees to a large extent during their return to the offices.
53	
GRI 403-2 
54	
GRI 403-6
