Options Contract
A hedging instrument that offers the buyer the right to buy or sell the underlying asset (such as stocks or 
currency) on a future date, at a specified price, for small upfront fee called options premium.  
Eg: TCS purchases an options contract to sell USD 1 million @ ₹87/US$ after 3 months, paying an option premium 
of ₹1 million. With this, TCS will have the right to sell USD 1 million at an exchange rate of ₹87, even if the 
prevailing market rate at the end of three months is, say ₹85. On the other hand, if the market rate is higher, say 
₹89, then TCS can choose to let the options contract lapse and instead sell at the market rate.  
Order Book
See Total Contract Value
Organic Growth
The revenue growth a company can achieve by increasing its existing business activity. This does not include 
growth attributable to takeovers, acquisitions or mergers.
PAS 2060
It is an internationally recognized standard by the British Standards Institution to verify and substantiate an 
organization’ claim of carbon neutrality.
PaaS
See Platform as a Service
Personalization
Segmentation and responding to individual transactions, customized for a single customer in a single instance.
Platforms
A group of technologies that are used as a base upon which other applications, processes or technologies are 
developed. Useful for optimizing costs and efforts, and eliminating iterative tasks to drive strategic business 
initiatives.
Platform as a 
Service (PaaS)
A category of cloud computing that provides a platform and environment to allow developers to build 
applications and services over the internet. PaaS services are hosted in the cloud and accessed by users simply via 
their web browser.
Power Usage 
Effectiveness
It is the ratio of total amount of electricity used by a data center facility to the electricity used by the computing 
equipment in the data center.
Pricing
The price charged to the customer for a billable effort, turnkey project or a certain process outcome, depending 
on the nature of the contract. See Realization.
Private Cloud
Refers to a model of cloud computing where IT infrastructure, in terms of compute and storage resources, are 
provisioned for the dedicated use of a single organization.
Product
In the technology context, refers to a packaged software program that is made available to multiple customers 
either on a license basis, or on a subscription basis, to enable the execution of certain common tasks or processes 
or business functions in a standardized way. This is the opposite of bespoke or custom software which is built to 
specifications to meet a customer’s unique needs.
Prompt
A specific instruction, question, or input provided to an AI model to guide its generation of content.
Prompt Engineering Prompt engineering is the process of writing, refining and optimizing inputs to encourage GenAI systems to create 
specific, high-quality outputs.
Public Cloud
A computing service model used for the provisioning of storage and computational services to the general public 
over the internet. Public cloud facilitates access to IT resources on a ‘pay as you go’ billing model.
PUE
See Power Usage Effectiveness
R&I
Acronym for Research & Innovation
Realization
The revenue received by the company per utilized effort. Pricing varies by service and by market. Consequently, 
there can be changes in realization compared to a prior period, due to changes in the underlying business or 
geographic mix during the period. 
RECs/ GOs
Renewable Energy Certificates / Guarantees of Origin are EACs used in different markets.
Related Party 
Transactions
Any transaction between a company and its related party involving transfer of services, resources or any 
obligation, regardless of whether a price is charged.
Responsible AI
Responsible Artificial Intelligence is an approach to developing, assessing, and deploying AI systems in a safe, 
trustworthy, and ethical way.
Revenue
The income earned by the company from operations by providing IT and consulting services, software licenses, 
and hardware equipment to customers.
RFP
Acronym for Request for Proposal, meaning a document that solicits proposal, often made through a bidding 
process, by an entity interested in procurement of IT services, to potential service providers to submit business 
proposals. An RFP is floated early in the procurement cycle and requested information may include basic 
corporate information and history, financial information, technical capability and estimated completion period, 
and customer references.
Robotic Process 
Automation
The use of software tools to automate high-volume, repeatable tasks that previously required humans to 
perform. RPA is best suited for relatively simple and stable processes. Dynamic changes in the environment 
require ongoing upkeep of the robots, diluting the economic benefit of the automation. Increasingly, customers 
are preferring cognitive automation over RPA. 
RPA
See Robotic Process Automation
Scope 1, Scope 2, 
Scope 3 emissions
Green house gas emission accounting categories as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Security Operations 
Center
A Security Operations Center is responsible for protecting an organization against cyber threats. SOC analysts 
perform round-the-clock monitoring of an organization’s network and investigate any potential security incidents.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
313
Glossary
