Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
286
Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
12)	 Employee benefits
	
Defined benefit plans
	
For defined benefit plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial 
valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the 
changes to the asset ceiling and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in the balance sheet with 
a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Past service cost, both vested and 
unvested, is recognised as an expense at the earlier of (a) when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs; and (b) when the 
entity recognises related restructuring costs or termination benefits.
	
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations 
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available 
refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
	
The Company provides benefits such as gratuity, pension and provident fund (Company managed fund) to its employees which 
are treated as defined benefit plans.
	
Defined contribution plans
	
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as expense when employees have rendered services entitling them to 
such benefits.
	
The Company provides benefits such as superannuation and foreign defined contribution plans to its employees which are treated 
as defined contribution plans.
	
Short-term employee benefits
	
All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months of rendering the service are classified as short-term employee 
benefits. Benefits such as salaries, wages etc. and the expected cost of ex-gratia are recognised in the period in which the 
employee renders the related service. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid when there is a present legal 
or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be 
estimated reliably.
	
Compensated absences
	
Compensated absences which are expected to occur within twelve months after the end of the period in which the employee 
renders the related services are recognised as undiscounted liability at the balance sheet date. Compensated absences which are 
not expected to occur within twelve months after the end of the period in which the employee renders the related services are 
recognised as an actuarially determined liability at the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date 
using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
	
Employee benefit expenses consist of the following: 
(` crore)
Year ended  
March 31, 2024
Year ended  
March 31, 2023
Salaries, incentives and allowances
 93,257 
 87,049 
Contributions to provident and other funds
 7,099 
 6,450 
Staff welfare expenses
 2,783 
 2,719 
 103,139 
 96,218 
	
Employee benefit obligations consist of the following:
	
Employee benefit obligations – Non-current
(` crore)
As at  
March 31, 2024
As at  
March 31, 2023
Foreign defined benefit plans
 29 
28 
Other employee benefit obligations
 115 
67
 144 
95
