Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
96
CorporateGovernanceReport
Material Topic
TCS’ Approach
Building sustainable and 
responsible supply chain
TCS requires its suppliers to sign the TCoC upon empanelment. That includes principles on 
protecting and safeguarding human rights, treating all persons with respect and dignity while 
safeguarding their rights, the abolition of forced and compulsory labor, child labor in the 
supply chain and strong corporate governance practices including anti-corruption and bribery 
and promoting fair business practices across the supply chain. TCoC also requires its suppliers 
to protect the environment and make conscious use of scarce natural resources in their 
business processes and at the same time highlighting the importance of health and safety in its 
workplace and expects the supplier to comply with sustainable business practices in letter and 
spirit in turn for its employees.
The Company supports the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the United Nations 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. It works with its suppliers to ensure that they 
too are fully aligned with these principles.
II.	
Board of Directors
	
i.	
As on March 31, 2024, the Company has nine 
Directors of which seven (i.e. 77.8 percent) are  
Non-Executive Directors (including two women 
director). The Company has five (i.e. 55.6 percent) 
Independent Directors.
	
	
The composition of the Board is in conformity with 
Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations read with 
Sections 149 and 152 of the Act.
	
ii.	
None of the Directors on the Board:
	
	
•	
holds directorships in more than ten public 
companies;
	
	
•	
serves as Director or as Independent Directors in 
more than seven listed entities; and
	
	
•	
who are the Executive Directors serve as 
independent directors in more than three listed 
entities.
	
	
Necessary disclosures regarding Committee positions 
in other public companies as on March 31, 2024, have 
been made by the Directors. None of the Directors 
are related to other Directors and the Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company except N Chandrasekaran 
and N G Subramaniam.
	
iii.	
Independent Directors are non-executive directors as 
defined under Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and Section 149(6) of the Act along with 
rules framed thereunder. In terms of Regulation 25(8) 
of SEBI Listing Regulations, they have confirmed that 
they are not aware of any circumstance or situation 
which exists or may be reasonably anticipated that 
could impair or impact their ability to discharge their 
duties. Based on the declarations received from the 
Independent Directors, the Board of Directors has 
confirmed that they meet the criteria of independence 
as mentioned under Section 149(6) of the Act and 
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and that they are independent of the management. 
Further, the Independent Directors have included 
their names in the data bank of Independent Directors 
maintained with the Indian Institute of Corporate 
Affairs in terms of Section 150 of the Act read 
with Rule 6 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014.
	
iv.	
Five Board Meetings were held during the year under 
review and the gap between the two meetings did 
not exceed one hundred and twenty days. The said 
meetings were held on: April 12, 2023; July 12, 2023; 
October 11, 2023; January 11, 2024, and  
March 11, 2024. The necessary quorum was present 
for all the meetings.
	
v.	
The names and categories of the directors on 
the Board, their attendance at Board Meetings 
held during the year under review and at the last 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), name of other 
listed entities in which the Director is a director 
and the number of Directorships and Committee 
Chairmanships/Memberships held by them in other 
public limited companies as on March 31, 2024, are 
given herein below. Other directorships do not include 
directorships of private limited companies,  
foreign companies and companies registered under 
Section 8 of the Act. Further, none of them is a 
member of more than ten committees or chairman 
of more than five committees across all the public 
limited companies in which he/she is a director. For 
the purpose of determination of limit of the Board 
Committees, chairpersonship and membership of 
the Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee has been considered as per Regulation 
26(1)(b) of SEBI Listing Regulations.
