Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
243
Standalone Financial Statements
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of 
the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive 
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The 
risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting 
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) 
of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements in 
place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the Management and Board of 
Directors.
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management 
and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis 
of accounting in preparation of standalone financial 
statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we 
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required 
to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to 
the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as 
a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the standalone financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during 
our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where 
applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or 
regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, 
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report because the adverse 
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to 
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in 
the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
2.	
 A.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report 
that:
	
	
a.	
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purposes of our audit.
	
	
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law have been kept by the Company 
so far as it appears from our examination of 
those books except for the matters stated in the 
paragraph 2B(f) below on reporting under Rule 
11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014.
	
	
c.	
The standalone balance sheet, the standalone 
statement of profit and loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the standalone 
statement of changes in equity and the 
standalone statement of cash flows dealt with by 
this Report are in agreement with the books of 
account.
	
	
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Ind AS specified 
under Section 133 of the Act.
	
	
e.	
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors as on 01 April 2024 
to 10 April 2024 taken on record by the Board 
of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified 
as on 31 March 2024 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
	
	
f.	
The modifications relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith 
are as stated in the paragraph 2A(b) above on 
reporting under Section 143(3)(b) of the Act and 
paragraph 2B(f) below on reporting under Rule 
11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014.
	
	
g.	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements of the Company and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our 
separate Report in “Annexure B”.
	
B.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
	
	
a.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations as at 31 March 2024 on its 
financial position in its standalone financial 
