Function Point
A function point is a granular building block of a software, based on a functional view of that system, represented 
by a code snippet whose logic helps the user accomplish something. The concept is used while estimating the 
effort for building a new application, by decomposing it into its constituent function points of varying levels of 
complexity. 
Furlough
A temporary cessation of work without pay for the employees, usually implemented by organizations facing under 
difficult economic conditions, and in lieu of laying off employees. 
Gamification
The process of adding games or game-like elements to any activity in order to enrich experiences and encourage 
user participation.
GDPR
Acronym for General Data Protection Regulation, a European Union regulation for data protection and privacy. 
Generative AI
Generative AI describes any type of artificial intelligence (AI) that is is capable of generating new content, 
including text, images, video, audio, simulations, code or synthetic data.  It involves the use of machine learning 
algorithms to learn patterns across a large data set and generate new content based on those patterns.
GHGs
Acronym for Greenhouse Gas. These are gases that trap heat in the atmosphere leading to global warming and 
climate change.
Global Capability 
Centers (GCC) / 
Captive units
Captive units include both MNC-owned units that undertake work for the parents’ global operations and the 
company owned units of domestic firms, set up in offshore locations offering cheaper labor pool, helping the 
parent to reduce its operational costs.
Green-Tariff
Green tariffs are specialized retail tariffs that electricity distribution companies (discoms) charge for the sale of 
Renewable Energy (RE) to their consumers. Businesses can sign up for these tariffs and claim RE consumption, 
while discoms procure electricity on their behalf from RE project developers.
Growth and 
Transformation
Initiatives launched to improve the enterprise’s revenues, leveraging technology to adopt new business models, 
drive new revenue streams, enhance customer experience or target new customer segments. This is in contrast 
to traditional outsourcing engagements where the focus is on improving efficiency and saving costs.
G&T
See Growth and Transformation
Hallucination
Tendency of large language models to make things up or provide output that seems plausible but is factually 
incorrect or unverifiable.
HVAC
Acronym for Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning System
Hybrid Cloud
An enterprise IT infrastructure model that combines private clouds, public clouds and on premise data centers, to 
meet the compute and storage needs of the business. 
IFRS S2
IFRS S2 is an international ESG reporting framework that requires an entity to disclose information about its 
climate-related risks and opportunities that is useful to users of general-purpose financial reports in making 
decisions relating to providing resources to the entity.
Note: IFRS is acronym of International Financial Reporting Standards
Innovation Days
Focused workshops with a TCS customer where researchers and business leaders from both organizations 
participate to explore emerging technologies for specific customer problems. 
Innovation Forum
TCS’ thought leadership event that is held in major and emerging markets. It brings together researchers from 
academia, innovators from the start-up ecosystem, technology watchers, futurists and customers to brainstorm 
around emerging technologies.
Inorganic Growth
Growth in revenue due to mergers, acquisitions or takeovers, rather than due to an increase in the company’s 
own business activity. 
Intellectual 
Property 
An asset that is the result of a creative design or idea, such as patents, copyrights, reusable code, software 
products and platforms, and gives the owner exclusive rights over its usage, such that no one can copy or reuse 
the creation without the owner’s permission.
Interactive 
Technology
Allows for a two-way flow of information through an interface between the user and the technology; the user 
usually communicates a request for data or action to the technology with the technology returning the requested 
data or result of the action back to the user.
Internet of Things
A network of interconnected machines or devices embedded with sensors, software, network connectivity, and 
necessary electronics to generate and share run-time data that can be studied and used to monitor or control 
remotely, predict failure, and optimize the design of those machines / devices.
Invested Funds
Funds that are highly liquid in nature and can be readily converted into cash.
Invested funds = Cash and cash equivalents + Investments + Deposits with banks + Inter-corporate deposits.
Involuntary 
Attrition
A reduction in the workforce due to the employer’s decision to terminate employment, instead of the employees’ 
decision to leave.  
IoT
See Internet of Things
IP
See Intellectual Property
ISO
Acronym for International Organization for Standardization
ISSB
Acronym for International Sustainability Standards Board
Key Managerial 
Personnel
At TCS, this refers to the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director, Chief Operating Officer & Executive 
Director, Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary. 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
311
Glossary
