Glossary
5G
Fifth generation wireless technology for digital cellular networks. 5G is expected to be much faster and enable 
much higher volumes of data sharing than earlier generations of cellular networks. Its massive capacity and ultra-
low latency are expected to usher in an era of hyper-connectivity, enabling newer use cases such as autonomous 
cars, and accelerating the adoption of IoT. 
ADM
See Application Development and Maintenance
Agile
A collaborative approach for IT and business teams to develop software incrementally and faster. TCS has 
pioneered the Location Independent Agile™ model that allows for deployment at scale, and helps globally 
distributed organization execute large transformational programs quickly, while ensuring stability and quality.
Agile Workspaces
These are key enablers of TCS’ Location Independent Agile model, and represent the next generation work 
environment that facilitate greater collaboration among teams. It is characterized by partition-less open offices, 
informal seating, interactive surfaces for information capture, and modern collaboration devices for increased 
productivity. 
AgilityDebt™
AgilityDebt™ is a simple index developed by TCS, which uniquely indicates the burden carried by an organization 
that restricts its Agility. The index is arrived at based on a holistic Agile maturity assessment framework that 
measures the gap against required Agile talent, roles, team composition, delivery practices, Agile culture, Agile 
technology and DevOps enablers. TCS uses AgilityDebt™ to assess where the customer’s teams are in the Agile 
journey, find the bottlenecks, and accelerate their Agile transformations.
AI
See Artificial Intelligence
AI Assistant
A software agent that uses AI technologies to perform tasks or services for an individual. These assistants can 
understand and interpret human speech or text inputs, enabling them to execute commands, answer questions, 
or assist with tasks like scheduling, reminding, or even controlling smart home devices.
AI Copilot
A virtual assistant that offers real-time guidance and feedback to enhance a human being’s work.
Algo Retail™
TCS’ proprietary approach and suite of intellectual property that enables retailers to seamlessly integrate and 
orchestrate data flows across the retail value chain, harnessing the power of analytics, AI and machine learning in 
the areas of personalization, pricing optimization, marketing, online search and commerce to unlock exponential 
business value.
Amortization
Systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an intangible asset over its useful life.
Analytics
In the enterprise context, this is the discovery, interpretation, and communication of meaningful patterns in 
business data to predict and improve business performance.
Annuity Contracts
A long-term contract which can guarantee regular payments.
APAC
Acronym for Asia Pacific 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
307
Glossary
