Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
256
Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
1)	
Corporate information
	
Tata Consultancy Services Limited (referred to as “TCS 
Limited” or “the Company”) provides IT services, consulting 
and business solutions and has been partnering with many 
of the world’s largest businesses in their transformation 
journeys. The Company offers a consulting-led, cognitive 
powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and 
engineering services and solutions. This is delivered 
through its unique Location-Independent Agile delivery 
model recognised as a benchmark of excellence in software 
development.
	
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and 
domiciled in India. The address of its corporate office is TCS 
House, Raveline Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400001. As at  
March 31, 2024, Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding 
company owned 71.74% of the Company’s equity share 
capital.
	
The Board of Directors approved the standalone financial 
statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 and 
authorised for issue on April 12, 2024.
2)	
Statement of compliance
	
These standalone financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards 
(referred to as “Ind AS”) as prescribed under section 133 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules as amended from time to 
time.
3)	
Basis of preparation
	
These standalone financial statements have been prepared 
on historical cost basis except for certain financial 
instruments and defined benefit plans which are measured 
at fair value or amortised cost at the end of each reporting 
period. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of 
the consideration given in exchange for goods and services. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. 
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current and 
non-current as per the Company’s normal operating cycle. 
Based on the nature of services rendered to customers 
and time elapsed between deployment of resources 
and the realisation in cash and cash equivalents of the 
consideration for such services rendered, the Company has 
considered an operating cycle of 12 months.
	
The statement of cash flows has been prepared under 
indirect method, whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the 
effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals 
or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or 
payments and items of income or expense associated 
with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows from 
operating, investing and financing activities of the Company 
are segregated. The Company considers all highly liquid 
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts 
of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 
value to be cash equivalents.
	
These standalone financial statements have been prepared 
in Indian Rupee (`) which is the functional currency of the 
Company. Foreign currency transactions are recorded at 
exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. 
Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and 
liabilities are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing 
on the balance sheet dates and exchange gains and losses 
arising on settlement and restatement are recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in 
foreign currencies are not retranslated.
	
The material accounting policy information related to 
preparation of the standalone financial statements have 
been discussed in the respective notes.
4)	
Use of estimates and judgements	
	
The preparation of standalone financial statements 
in conformity with the recognition and measurement 
principles of Ind AS requires management of the Company 
to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported 
balances of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent 
liabilities as at the date of standalone financial statements 
and the reported amounts of income and expenses for the 
periods presented.
	
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised 
and future periods are affected.
	
The Company uses the following critical accounting 
judgements, estimates and assumptions in preparation of 
its standalone financial statements:
	
(a)	 Revenue recognition
	
	
Revenue for fixed-price contracts is recognised using 
percentage-of-completion method. The Company 
estimates the future cost-to-completion of the 
contracts which is used to determine degree of 
completion of the performance obligation.
	
	
The Company exercises judgement for identification of 
performance obligations, determination of transaction 
price, ascribing the transaction price to each distinct 
performance obligation and in determining whether 
the performance obligation is satisfied at a point in 
time or over a period of time. These judgements have 
been explained in detail under the revenue note (Refer 
note 10).
	
(b)	 Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
	
	
The Company reviews the useful life of property, 
plant and equipment at the end of each reporting 
period. This reassessment may result in change in 
depreciation expense in future periods (Refer note 
8(a)).
	
(c)	 Impairment of investments in subsidiaries
	
	
The Company reviews its carrying value of investments 
carried at cost (net of impairment, if any) annually, 
or more frequently when there is indication for 
impairment. If the recoverable amount is less than its 
carrying amount, the impairment loss is accounted for 
in the statement of profit and loss.
