kL
Acronym for the unit kilo-liters used to measure volume. It is a unit used to measure and report water usage in 
TCS’ offices.
KMP
See Key Managerial Personnel
kWh
Acronym for kilowatt hours used as a unit of measurement of electricity
Large Language 
Models
This is a language model used to train generative AI and consists of a neural network with many parameters 
(typically billions of weights), trained on large volumes of unlabeled text.  By tracking words in sequences, it 
learns both context and meaning in language, enabling it to generate text artifacts that look they were written by 
humans. 
LatAm
Acronym for Latin America 
Location 
Independent Agile
A method to orchestrate globally distributed stakeholders and talent into Agile teams for improved speed to 
market in large transformational programs. It comprises processes, structure, and the technology that allows 
enterprises to overcome location constraints and embrace Agile methods on a global scale. 
Low-Code, No Code
New software development platforms that offer a drag and drop user interface to allow business users to build 
custom web or mobile applications without actually having to write the code. The difference between the 
two is related to the extent of programming ability needed. The former might still require some amount of 
programming, while the latter is entirely drag and drop. In addition to boosting innovation within the enterprise, 
these platforms also drive-up productivity of programmers.
Machine First™ 
Delivery Model
A model that integrates analytics, AI and automation deep within the enterprise to redefine how humans and 
machines work together and to effectively deliver superior outcomes. 
Machine Learning
A type of artificial intelligence that provides computers with the ability to learn behaviors without being explicitly 
programmed and relying on patterns and inference instead.
Managed Services
This is the practice of outsourcing to one service provider, also knowns as the Managed Services Provider (MSP), 
the end-to-end responsibility for providing, or orchestrating the provision through third party providers of, 
services around a range of processes and functions, in order to improve efficiency, service quality, agility and 
scalability.
Managed Services 
Provider
Service providers with the sole, end-to-end responsibility of providing Managed Services.
Market 
Capitalization
The total market value of a company’s total outstanding equity shares at a point in time.
Market Capitalization = Last Trading Price * Total number of outstanding shares
MEA
Acronym for Middle East and Africa 
Metaverse
A virtual 3D environment that a user can experience explore on a computer or VR headset. Users can interact 
with each other in several ways, including social networking, gaming, and shopping.
MFDM™
Acronym for Machine First Delivery Model
Minimum Viable 
Product 
The most basic version of a new product built in an agile development cycle, with the bare minimum functionality, 
made available to users at the earliest to get user feedback and validate product value with minimum investment. 
Once validated, its features and functionalities are continually augmented in subsequent iterative cycles. 
MJ
Acronym for Mega Joule used as a unit of measurement of energy (electricity as well as fuel use)
Mobility
Digital technology which includes - Information, convenience, and social media all combined together, and made 
available across a variety of screen sizes and hand-held devices.
MSP
See Managed Services Provider
MVP
See Minimum Viable Product
MWh
Acronym for megawatt hours used as a unit of measurement of electricity. 1 MWh=1000kWh
Natural Language 
Processing
Branch of Artificial Intelligence that deals with the interaction between computers and humans through natural 
language, involving complex and challenging tasks such as speech recognition, natural language understanding, 
and natural language generation.
Net Zero
Greenhouse gases emitted into the atmosphere due the company’s activity are minimized through a series 
of initiatives and the residual emission is compensated by removal of equivalent amount of GHG emissions 
elsewhere through carbon offsets.
Non-Controlling 
Interests
The share of the net worth attributable to non-controlling shareholders of the subsidiaries.
Non-discretionary 
Spend
Also known as Run the Business (RTB) spend, is that portion of the IT budget that covers the basic IT activities 
required to keep a business running. Even in tough economic times, non-discretionary spend remains relatively 
unaffected.
Operating Model
The manner in which processes are defined and activities are organized to create and deliver value to a target 
audience. An IT operating model covers activities around new system development, application and infrastructure 
support whereas business operating models address execution of actions specific to a business function. 
Operating Model 
Transformation
Redefining individual processes by embedding AI, machine learning and other forms of automation to reduce the 
need for human intervention, resulting in a leaner operating model that is faster, more agile and more resilient. 
Such transformations – whether in IT or business – can be significantly accelerated by the use of TCS Cognix. 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
312
Glossary
