Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
257
Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
	
(d)	 Fair value measurement of financial instruments
	
	
When the fair value of financial assets and financial 
liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be 
measured based on quoted prices in active markets, 
their fair value is measured using valuation techniques 
including the Discounted Cash Flow model. The inputs 
to these models are taken from observable markets 
where possible, but where this is not feasible, a 
degree of judgement is required in establishing fair 
values. Judgements include considerations of inputs 
such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes 
in assumptions about these factors could affect the 
reported fair value of financial instruments.
	
(e)	 Impairment of financial assets (other than at fair 
value)
	
	
Measurement of impairment of financial assets 
require use of estimates, which have been explained 
in the note on financial assets, financial liabilities and 
equity instruments, under impairment of financial 
assets (other than at fair value) (Refer note 6).
	
(f)	
Provision for income tax and deferred tax assets
	
	
The Company uses judgements based on the relevant 
rulings in the areas of allocation of revenue, costs, 
allowances and disallowances which is exercised while 
determining the provision for income tax. A deferred 
tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences and 
tax losses can be utilised. Accordingly, the Company 
exercises its judgement to reassess the carrying 
amount of deferred tax assets at the end of each 
reporting period.
	
(g)	 Provisions and contingent liabilities
	
	
The Company estimates the provisions that have 
present obligations as a result of past events and it is 
probable that outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligations. These provisions are reviewed at 
the end of each reporting period and are adjusted to 
reflect the current best estimates. 
	
	
The Company uses significant judgements to assess 
contingent liabilities. Contingent liabilities are 
disclosed when there is a possible obligation arising 
from past events, the existence of which will be 
confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events not wholly 
within the control of the Company or a present 
obligation that arises from past events where it is 
either not probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation or a reliable 
estimate of the amount cannot be made. Contingent 
assets are neither recognised nor disclosed in the 
standalone financial statements.
	
(h)	 Employee benefits
	
	
The accounting of employee benefit plans in the 
nature of defined benefit requires the Company to use 
assumptions. These assumptions have been explained 
under employee benefits note (Refer note 12).
	
(i)	
Leases
	
	
The Company evaluates if an arrangement qualifies 
to be a lease as per the requirements of Ind AS 116. 
Identification of a lease requires significant judgement. 
The Company uses significant judgement in assessing 
the lease term (including anticipated renewals) and 
the applicable discount rate. 
	
	
The Company determines the lease term as the 
non-cancellable period of a lease, together with both 
periods covered by an option to extend the lease if 
the Company is reasonably certain to exercise that 
option; and periods covered by an option to terminate 
the lease if the Company is reasonably certain not 
to exercise that option. In assessing whether the 
Company is reasonably certain to exercise an option 
to extend a lease, or not to exercise an option to 
terminate a lease, it considers all relevant facts and 
circumstances that create an economic incentive for 
the Company to exercise the option to extend the 
lease, or not to exercise the option to terminate the 
lease. The Company revises the lease term if there is a 
change in the non-cancellable period of a lease.
	
	
The discount rate is generally based on the 
incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease being 
evaluated or for a portfolio of leases with similar 
characteristics.
5)	
Recent pronouncements
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards under 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued 
from time to time. For the year ended March 31, 2024, 
MCA has not notified any new standards or amendments to 
the existing standards applicable to the Company.
6)	
Financial assets, financial liabilities and equity 
instruments
	
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the 
Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument. Financial assets and liabilities are initially 
measured at fair value, except for trade receivables which 
are initially measured at transaction price. Transaction 
costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or 
issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than 
financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair 
value measured on initial recognition of financial asset or 
financial liability.
	
The Company derecognises a financial asset only when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, 
or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another 
entity. The Company derecognises financial liabilities when, 
and only when, the Company’s obligations are discharged, 
cancelled or have expired.
	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
The Company considers all highly liquid investments, which 
are readily convertible into known amounts of cash that are 
subject to an insignificant risk of change in value, to be cash 
