Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
324
Sustainability Disclosures
All climate-related risks are embedded into entity’s overall risk management process. TCS has an internal application where identified risks 
are baselined at the beginning of the year, tracked quarterly and updated with relevant progress. Each risk has an expiry date. Each risk 
owner responds with the progress and at the end of the financial year ensures closing of the risk.
Section 4: Metrics and targets
Climate related metrics
a.	
Climate-related metrics – Scope 1,2 and 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent are disclosed on 
page number 152, 158 of the BRSR report. The emissions are in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standards. TCS has a robust environmental sustainability tool where all relevant environmental data are collected monthly, 
validated, and internally assured periodically across geographies. All locations within the operational control of TCS are included in 
the boundary of environmental data reporting (consolidated accounting group as per IFRS-S2). GHG emission factors are used from 
the latest version of IEA, DEFRA, USEPA, GHG Protocol All Sector Tools and regional sources for specific geographies (e.g. CEA for 
India) to estimate the GHG emissions. The approach, inputs and assumptions are detailed on Page number 152, 158 as part of the 
BRSR section. The carbon emission data is independently assured by external assurance providers at the end of the financial year. 
In FY 2024, scope 1 and 2 emissions have undergone reasonable assurance and scope 3 has been subject to limited assurance by 
KPMG. TCS reports its scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions in the Integrated Annual Report and in CDP (Climate change) disclosures. 
b.	
Climate-related transition risks—Business activities vulnerable to climate-related transition risks; - Refer section Sustainability Risks - 
Climate change and Environmental aspects (R & O), page number 86.
c.	
 Climate-related physical risks—Business activities vulnerable to climate-related physical risks; - Refer section Sustainability Risks - 
Climate change and Environmental aspects (R & O), page number 86.
d.	
Climate-related opportunities—Business activities aligned with climate-related opportunities; - Refer section Sustainability Risks - 
Climate change and Environmental aspects (R & O), page number 86.
e.	
Capital deployment—the amount of capital expenditure, financing or investment deployed towards climate-related risks and 
opportunities; - Refer BRSR section in Principle 2 (Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific 
technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made 
by the entity, respectively, Page number 135)
f.	
Internal carbon prices:
	
The organization has calculated an internal carbon price based on the total investments envisaged for energy efficiency programs, 
transition to renewable energy and other investments towards emission reductions. Currently TCS does not apply this carbon price 
to determine the feasibility of projects or to apply a carbon tax to generate funding for the projects. All these projects and initiatives 
are driven through internal accruals since they align to overall company and Tata Group philosophy. Currently, TCS is not focusing on 
offsetting to drive reductions and the company may take up the carbon cost/tax mechanism in the future to generate budgets for 
purchase of offset instruments. In the coming years, the company may plan to consider applying a carbon tax to business travel (and 
employee commuting-company provided transport) to bring out the “carbon” cost. This will help reduce Category 6 and 7 of Scope 
3 emissions by either reducing travel or switching to carbon efficient means of travel and transportation (like EVs). The price for each 
metric tonne of greenhouse gas emissions the entity uses to assess the costs of its greenhouse gas emissions is ₹ 2,365.
	
Business decision-making processes this internal carbon price is applied to are:
	
•	
Capital expenditure 
	
•	
Operations procurement 
	
•	
Risk management 
	
•	
Opportunity management
	
•	
Value chain engagement
Remuneration: Refer page number 103 for information on remuneration of the Board members. 
Climate-related targets
TCS’ climate related targets are mentioned along with its metrics, timeline, and performance in page 24, 25 of the Natural Capital section. 
In May 2021, TCS set carbon target of 70% reduction of absolute Scope 1 + 2 emissions by 2025 (vs base year 2016) and Net Zero by 2030. 
This target setting is aimed to mitigate the carbon emissions from its activities and enables adapting to climate change risks. The target 
applies to the entity in entirety across geographies. TCS has already achieved 71% reduction in scope 1 and 2 emissions in FY 2023 (Vs 
2016) and 80% reduction in FY 2024 (Vs 2016) thereby overachieving the targets much ahead of its timelines. 
The performance against the targets is disclosed in this Integrated Annual Report in the Natural Capital Section on Page numbers 24 and 25. 
TCS has made its commitment to SBTi targets. In June 2022, TCS has responded to SBTi’s urgent call for corporate climate action by 
committing to align with 1.5°C and net-zero through the Business Ambition for 1.5°C campaign. This is published on SBTi website and can 
be viewed at Companies taking action - Science Based Targets. TCS is working towards submitting the targets for validation by SBTi.
