Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
40
Notice
16.	 Members seeking any information with regard to the 
financial statements or any matter to be placed at the AGM 
are requested to write to the Company on or before  
May 30, 2024, through e-mail on investor.relations@tcs.com. 
The same will be replied by the Company suitably.
17.	 Members are requested to note that dividends, if not 
encashed for a period of 7 years from the date of transfer 
to Unpaid Dividend Account of the Company, are liable to 
be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund (“IEPF”). Further, all the shares in respect of which 
dividend has remained unclaimed for 7 consecutive years 
or more from the date of transfer to unpaid dividend 
account shall also be transferred to IEPF. In view of this, 
Members are requested to claim their dividends from the 
Company, within the stipulated timeline. 
	
The Members whose unclaimed dividends and/or 
shares have been transferred to IEPF, may contact the 
Company or RTA and submit the required documents 
for issue of Entitlement Letter. The Members can attach 
the Entitlement Letter and other required documents 
and file the IEPF-5 form for claiming the dividend and/
or shares available on www.iepf.gov.in. For details, please 
refer to Corporate Governance Report which is a part of 
this Integrated Annual report and FAQ of investor page 
on Company’s website https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ.  The 
procedure for claiming the shares from IEPF Authority is 
available on  https://on.tcs.com/IEPF
18.	 Members attending the meeting through VC/OAVM shall be 
counted for the purpose of determining the quorum under 
Section 103 of the Act.
19.	 Instructions for e-voting and joining the AGM are as 
follows:
	
(A)	 VOTING THROUGH ELECTRONIC MEANS
	
	
i.	
In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 
of the Act, read with Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, 
as amended from time to time, Regulation 44 of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations and in terms of SEBI 
Circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 
dated December 9, 2020 in relation to “e-voting 
Facility Provided by Listed Entities”, the Members 
are provided with the facility to cast their vote 
electronically, through the e-voting services 
provided by NSDL, on all the resolutions set forth 
in this Notice. The instructions for e-voting are 
given herein below.
	
	
ii.	
The remote e-voting period commences on 
Tuesday, May 28, 2024  (9:00 a.m. IST) and ends 
on Thursday, May 30, 2024 (5:00 p.m. IST). During 
this period, Members holding shares either in 
physical form or in dematerialized form, as on 
Friday, May 24, 2024, i.e. cut-off date, may cast 
their vote electronically.
	
	
	
The e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL 
for voting thereafter. Members have the option to 
cast their vote on any of the resolutions using the 
remote e-voting facility, either during the period 
commencing from Tuesday, May 28, 2024 and 
to Thursday, May 30, 2024, or e-voting during 
the AGM. Members who have voted on some of 
the resolutions during the said voting period are 
also eligible to vote on the remaining resolutions 
during the AGM.
	
	
iii.	
The Members who have cast their vote by 
remote e-voting prior to the AGM may also 
attend/participate in the AGM through VC/OAVM 
but shall not be entitled to cast their vote on such 
resolution again.
	
	
iv.	
The Board of Directors has appointed P N Parikh 
(Membership No. FCS 327) and failing him,	
Jigyasa Ved (Membership No. FCS 6488) of 
Parikh & Associates, Company Secretaries as the 
Scrutinizer to scrutinize the e-voting process in a 
fair and transparent manner.
	
	
v.	
The voting rights of Members shall be in 
proportion to their shares in the paid-up equity 
share capital of the Company as on the cut-off 
date.
	
	
vi.	
Any person holding shares in physical form 
and non-individual shareholders, who acquires 
shares of the Company and becomes a Member 
of the Company after sending of the Notice 
and holding shares as of the cut-off date, may 
obtain the User ID and Password by sending a 
request at evoting@nsdl.com. However, if he/
she is already registered with NSDL for remote 
e-voting then he/she can use his/her existing 
User ID and Password for casting the vote. In case 
of individual shareholders holding securities in 
dematerialized mode and who acquires shares 
of the Company and becomes a Member of 
the Company after sending of the Notice and 
holding shares as of the cut-off date may follow 
steps mentioned below under “Login method 
for remote e-voting and joining virtual meeting 
for individual shareholders holding securities in 
dematerialized mode.”
	
	
vii.	 The details of the process and manner for remote 
e-voting are explained herein below:
	
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-voting system 
consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
	
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-voting system
	
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-voting 
system.
Details on Step 1 are mentioned below :
I)	
Login method for remote e-voting and joining the virtual 
meeting for individual shareholders holding securities in 
dematerialized mode
	
Pursuant to SEBI Circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/ 
2020/242 dated December 9, 2020, on “e-voting facility 
provided by Listed Companies”, e-voting process has been 
enabled to all the individual demat account holders, by way 
of single login credential, through their demat accounts/
websites of Depositories/DPs to increase the efficiency of 
the voting process. Individual demat account holders would 
