With 13,500 trade legs per minute, 13 million transactions per 
day and few trillion USD worth of securities in custody, SECOM 
is the electronic post trading system used by SIX for automated 
processing and settlement of transactions. Built by TCS, SECOM 
was one of the world’s first real-time gross settlement (RTGS) 
systems and formed the backbone of the Swiss capital market. 
But can a three-decade old system meet the strenuous demands 
of modern times? TCS and SIX both knew the answer was ‘no’. 
SIX decided to embark on a journey of transformation yet again, 
backed by three decades of relation and trust it shares with TCS. 
Back in 1990, when SIX was looking to enhance the scalability 
of its batch system to meet the market demands of the future, 
TCS proposed a new platform called SECOM. This platform 
would be real time, cutting-edge, scalable, and modular with 
robust architecture. Enabling straight-through processing, it was 
amongst the most sophisticated systems of its time. Over the 
years, TCS continued to manage this system for SIX.
Three decades later, SIX partnered with TCS to accomplish 
another mega feat. TCS executed a PoC to demonstrate the 
CUSTOMER
S T O R I E S
Trading old for new: SIX unveils an 
advanced post trading platform
To take this forward, TCS tapped into its design labs to create 
a platform that reimagined the user experience and enabled 
faster response to queries. TCS was able to fast-track this 
development with an ingenious automation solution which 
migrated over 500 billion records in record time, saving 10-12 
months’ time from the overall process.
The flexible, secure, and cloud-ready platform is economical 
and makes SIX’ internal operations and process more 
efficient. The ability to customize individual post trade 
processes depending on market requirements in different 
parts of the world has set SIX on a steady path of growth and 
expansion. With this new and advanced system, SIX became 
more modern, up to date and market-friendly – boosting 
customer-centricity and overall competitiveness – and 
maintaining its pole position in the Swiss financial market.    
feasibility of modernizing the existing system. TCS showed 
how this transformation would serve SIX for decades to 
come – making it more efficient, enabling speed and growth for 
the firm. Placing trust in TCS’ execution capabilities, SIX decided 
to go ahead with the transformation. Thus, the next journey 
from mainframe to an open and more resilient system began. 
This is going to give a second life to our core 
CSD platform and make our relationship with 
TCS even stronger. We are conscious of the pressure 
and high expectations that we have put on TCS for the most 
complex project in recent years, but the TCS team has lived up 
to the expectations with an outstanding level of commitment. 
Our main goal is to become more customer-centric and user 
friendly and we have achieved it with this platform upgrade. I 
am sure that we can count on TCS for the many challenges that 
SIX has ahead.
Arturo Merino                                                                           
Head IT, Securities Services 
SIX
Customer Stories
  
26
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
