Hours of Purpose by Employees (HOPE)
Volunteer Testimonial
Hours of Purpose by Employees (HOPE) is a wonderful 
initiative to celebrate the eﬀorts of people who work 
selﬂessly to bring about positive change in society. 
Personally, participating and contributing hours to HOPE 
initiatives allowed me to be a part of the community and 
provided me with a sense of belonging. Going to NGOs 
and working with the team members helped unite my 
teams of young volunteers who want to build a better 
society and put a smile on the faces of beneﬁciaries. I get 
Volunteering has a new home at TCS. Hours of Purpose by 
Employees (HOPE) is a transformational movement that allows 
TCS’ growing, highly skilled, and diverse personnel to 
champion purpose projects and give back to society.
The program transformed volunteering from an occasional 
activity into a strategic force for positive change. Through 
HOPE, employees can choose activities in diﬀerent localities, 
along with corporate-driven programs, primarily focused on 
the 17 UN SDGs. All HOPE projects are guided, monitored, and 
driven by ‘Purpose Councils’ comprising leaders from regions 
and business units who believe in the Tata Ethos of giving back 
to society. TCS believes that HOPE’s strong, purpose-driven 
ecosystem is vital to create change that will stand the test of 
time and generate positive impact.
TCS: #1 company for volunteers
Through HOPE, TCS became the leading company for 
volunteers. For the ﬁrst time, multiple volunteering events 
(over 250) were organized under one platform, allowing 
182,000 volunteers to choose what they volunteer for, how 
they volunteer (DIY/virtual/in-person), and who they volunteer 
with (friends and family).
And miles to go…
In FY 2024, HOPE resulted in a collective impact of 6.72 million 
volunteer hours, primarily addressing six SDGs. The platform 
reached 11.17 PCVH (Per Capita Volunteering Hours) and 
positively impacted 5.41 million lives. As more TCSers and 
their friends and family join hands with HOPE, striving to be 
purposeful stewards of their communities, this movement is 
set to continuously grow and touch more lives. 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
122
Corporate Social Responsibility
This year, IMF introduced a new oﬀering: Behind the Scenes, 
a virtual ﬁeld trip model that empowers teachers with 
high-quality video and activity content to inspire students as 
they become today’s problem solvers in tomorrow’s world. 
The ﬁrst-ever Behind the Scenes content is designed in 
partnership with a fellow Tata Group company, Jaguar Land 
Rover, through Jaguar TCS Racing partnership via the ABB FIA 
Formula E World Championship.
Since its inception in 2017, IMF has positively impacted over 
2.32 million teachers and students around the world. In
FY 2024, IMF beneﬁted 312,966 students and 6,209 
educators across ANZ, APAC, India, LATAM, North America, 
and UK & Ireland.
Ignite My Future At Track is a novel program within the 
IMF universe of resources that oﬀers teachers and 
students the opportunity to peep behind the scenes and 
discover how STEM careers can be fully compatible with 
someone’s passion for something, like motor sports. 
Thanks to cross-sector eﬀorts, TCS gave IMF alumni and 
IMF Learning Leaders the opportunity to witness ﬁrsthand 
how the Jaguar TCS Racing Team uses problem-solving 
strategies in computational thinking to ensure a successful 
race. Students interest in STEM careers grew by 40%. 75% 
felt more likely to use computational thinking strategies in 
real-life situations, and 100% of teachers in the immediate 
community showed newly acquired interest in the 
program. It is said that “it takes a village to raise a child” 
and Ignite My Future’s eﬀorts make sure no child is left 
behind. 
Ignite My Future (IMF) Case Study - Igniting Futures at full
speed: cross-sector eﬀorts that inspire generations
Since I was introduced to Ignite My Future by my 
teacher in the classroom, I felt there was a 
diﬀerence in my day to day living. Computational 
Thinking was something I could use in my daily 
problems too. Then, when I realized I was going 
to be given the chance to be part of Ignite My 
Future At Track, I discovered how interesting the 
world of STEM is and how it’s not just what you 
see in a book. Not only am I a big fan of race cars 
now, but I am also sure I am going to pursue a 
career in STEM now. 
Tomás F
Middle School Student, IMF alumni, México 
Employee Volunteering Program
