Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
136
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) or for 
its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
	
No. This is not applicable to TCS. TCS does not have any physical products as a part of its offerings to customers. TCS is primarily 
an IT services organization and products, if any, are typically software products. Hence the applicability of life-cycle approach 
to TCS’ core operations is rather limited. Application of a life cycle approach is hence restricted to the services and products 
procured by TCS for its own operations. Most of the product categories procured are off-the-shelf items. Hence, the life cycle 
philosophy as extended to these include green procurement considerations as a part of the technical specifications for purchase 
and end-of-life management to maximize recycling.
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your products 
/ services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the 
same along-with action taken to mitigate the same44.
	
TCS is a provider of IT consulting services and business solutions. No social or environmental concerns are associated with the use 
of its offerings. Details of the environmental footprint of TCS’ operations and mitigation steps are provided as part of disclosures 
under Principle 6.
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) 
or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate Input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2023-24 (%)
FY 2022-23(%)
Materials* used in brownfield projects
20-25
20-25
Materials** used in greenfield projects
30-35
30-35
*Brownfield projects - Gypsum, Ceiling Tiles, Glass, Kota Flooring, Vitrified Tiles, Carpet, MS Railing, Workstations, Marine 
Plywood, Common Plywood, Chairs, Laminate, MDF, Doors
**Greenfield Projects - Cement, Steel, RCC, Structural Steel, Paver blocks, AAC Block, Solid Blocks, Gypsum, Ceiling Tiles, Glass, 
Kota Flooring, Vitrified Tiles, Carpet, MS Railing, Workstations, Marine Plywood, Common Plywood, Chairs, Laminate, MDF, 
Doors
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely 
disposed, as per the following format:
	
NA, as TCS does not have physical products as a part of its offerings.
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
	
NA, as TCS does not have physical products as a part of its offerings.
44	
GRI 306-2
