Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
187
Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
amount of exchange differences related to that foreign 
operation recognised in OCI is reclassified to statement of 
profit and loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
5)	
Use of estimates and judgements
	
The preparation of consolidated financial statements 
in conformity with the recognition and measurement 
principles of Ind AS requires management of the Group to 
make estimates and judgements that affect the reported 
balances of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent 
liabilities as at the date of consolidated financial statements 
and the reported amounts of income and expenses for the 
periods presented.
	
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised 
and future periods are affected.
	
The Group uses the following critical accounting 
judgements, estimates and assumptions in preparation of 
its consolidated financial statements:
	
(a)	 Revenue recognition
	
	
Revenue for fixed-price contracts is recognised 
using percentage-of-completion method. The 
Group estimates the future cost-to-completion of 
the contracts which is used to determine degree of 
completion of the performance obligation.
	
	
The Group exercises judgement for identification of 
performance obligations, determination of transaction 
price, ascribing the transaction price to each distinct 
performance obligation and in determining whether 
the performance obligation is satisfied at a point 
in time or over a period of time. These judgements 
have been explained in detail under the revenue 
recognition note (Refer note 12).
	
(b)	 Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
	
	
The Group reviews the useful life of property, 
plant and equipment at the end of each reporting 
period. This reassessment may result in change in 
depreciation expense in future periods (Refer note 
10(a)).
	
(c)	 Impairment of goodwill
	
	
The Group estimates the value-in-use of the cash 
generating units (CGUs) based on the future cash 
flows after considering current economic conditions 
and trends, estimated future operating results and 
growth rate and anticipated future economic and 
regulatory conditions. The estimated cash flows are 
developed using internal forecasts. The discount rates 
used for the CGUs represent the weighted average 
cost of capital based on the historical market returns 
of comparable companies (Refer note 10(b)).
	
(d)	 Fair value measurement of financial instruments
	
	
When the fair value of financial assets and financial 
liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be 
measured based on quoted prices in active markets, 
their fair value is measured using valuation techniques 
including the Discounted Cash Flow model. The inputs 
to these models are taken from observable markets 
where possible, but where this is not feasible, a 
degree of judgement is required in establishing fair 
values. Judgements include considerations of inputs 
such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes 
in assumptions about these factors could affect the 
reported fair value of financial instruments.
	
(e)	 Impairment of financial assets (other than at fair 
value)
	
	
Measurement of impairment of financial assets 
require use of estimates, which have been explained 
in the note on financial assets, financial liabilities and 
equity instruments, under impairment of financial 
assets (other than at fair value) (Refer note 8)).
	
(f)	
Provision for income tax and deferred tax assets
	
	
The Group uses judgements based on the relevant 
rulings in the areas of allocation of revenue, costs, 
allowances and disallowances which is exercised while 
determining the provision for income tax. A deferred 
tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences and tax 
losses can be utilised. Accordingly, the Group exercises 
its judgement to reassess the carrying amount of 
deferred tax assets at the end of each reporting 
period.
	
(g)	 Provisions and contingent liabilities
	
	
The Group estimates the provisions that have present 
obligations as a result of past events and it is probable 
that outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligations. These provisions are reviewed at the end 
of each reporting period and are adjusted to reflect 
the current best estimates. 
	
	
The Group uses significant judgements to assess 
contingent liabilities. Contingent liabilities are 
disclosed when there is a possible obligation arising 
from past events, the existence of which will be 
confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events not wholly 
within the control of the Group or a present obligation 
that arises from past events where it is either not 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required 
to settle the obligation or a reliable estimate of the 
amount cannot be made. Contingent assets are 
neither recognised nor disclosed in the consolidated 
financial statements.
	
(h)	 Employee benefits 
	
	
The accounting of employee benefit plans in the 
nature of defined benefit requires the Group to use 
assumptions. These assumptions have been explained 
under employee benefits note (Refer note 14).
