Letter from the Chairman 
  
7
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
•	
Geo-political challenges are continuing to alter established 
supply chains and companies are rebalancing their supply 
chains to address both resilience and efficiency. New global 
supply chain ecosystems are being created, with India 
playing an important role in advanced manufacturing.
•	
Advanced manufacturing, new technologies like AI, new 
energy, data and business models are changing the future 
of work and are compelling new skillsets to be built for the 
future. 
•	
Secure networks have become a key necessity as data is the 
foundation for businesses of today. These networks power 
everything from predictive analytics and AI to personalized 
customer experiences. As value of data increases, along 
with concerns of privacy and protection, it has rightly 
become a focal point of security for all businesses. 
The key question is what these disruptions mean to the IT 
services industry and how your company is preparing for these?
As enterprises globally prepare to respond to these mega 
trends, we see multiple opportunities for your company. Every 
industry is embracing these trends and their business is being 
shaped for the future. For example:
•	
The deployment of AI and GenAI will significantly help 
financial institutions in both driving efficiency as well 
as target new customers and serve customers in a very 
personalized manner. For example, Insurance claims 
will be processed in a matter of minutes, lending and 
disbursements will become much faster.
•	
Adoption of new energy solutions and AI technology is 
driving the future of automobiles. It is not only driving 
reduction of emissions but also providing a new level of 
customer experience. 
•	
AI is accelerating drug development by screening millions 
of compounds, predicting interactions and generating new 
candidates for testing.
•	
Connected medical devices together with AI and GenAI will 
transform Healthcare in a significant way. It will enhance 
productivity, enable remote care and help overcome 
shortage of skilled resources.
•	
In Advanced manufacturing, an AI-first approach will 
drive new benchmarks in productivity, efficiency and 
sustainability. 
•	
Telecom industry globally is upgrading communication 
infrastructure to 5G/6G. These high speed, low latency 
networks, along with edge compute and AI will 
become the backbone of businesses in future.
These transitions will require substantial investment in 
technology across industry sectors. Your company is making 
significant investments and building capabilities to partner with 
customers during this phase of rapid technological shifts:
•	
In FY 2024, TCS has consolidated AI and Cloud expertise 
with the creation of the AI.Cloud unit. In addition, each 
of the business groups are developing domain-specific 
AI/GenAI offerings relevant to the industry value chain. 
Over 300,000 employees have been upskilled on GenAI 
technologies in FY 2024. TCS’ products and services are 
also being enhanced with AI capabilities. For example, TCS 
BaNCSTM is enriching its product portfolio with integrated 
AI/ML and GenAI capabilities; AI is also being embedded in 
Cybersecurity services to enable predictive capabilities.
•	
To partner with customers on their energy transition 
agenda, TCS is investing in research on green hydrogen, 
biofuels; developing digital platforms to help customers 
reduce Scope 1/2/3 emissions. Our proprietary ESG 
framework enables enterprises to build transparency into 
operations and simplifies compliance reporting.
•	
TCS is pioneering the engineering of the 5G/6G 
communication stacks using open standards. Two 
state-of-the-art labs for future ready communication 
infrastructure and interoperability have been setup at 
Bengaluru and Gurugram. Investments are being made in 
multiple niche technologies such as 5G SA Core, O-RAN 
radios, to build these solutions indigenously.
•	
Your company continues to invest in upskilling its talent 
base of over  600,000 employees. Employees are actively 
leveraging experiential and personalized learning on a wide 
range of emerging technologies, clocking over 51 million 
learning hours in FY 2024. TCS continues to build strong 
talent supply chains with deep partnerships with leading 
educational institutions, shaping the curriculum for new 
skill needs for the future.
On behalf of the Board of Directors of the company, I want to 
thank you for your continued trust, confidence, and support.
Warm regards,
N Chandrasekaran
Chairman
