Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
276
Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
	
Interest on lease liabilities is `438 crore and `421 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
	
The Company incurred `221 crore and `211 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, towards expenses 
relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets.
	
The total cash outflow for leases is `1,737 crore and `1,732 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, 
including cash outflow for short term leases and leases of low-value assets.
	
The Company has lease term extension options that are not reflected in the measurement of lease liabilities. The present value of 
future cash outflows for such extension periods is `815 crore and `786 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
	
Lease contracts entered by the Company majorly pertain for buildings taken on lease to conduct its business in the ordinary 
course.
	
The Company does not have any lease restrictions and commitment towards variable rent as per the contract.
8)	
Non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities 
(a)	 Property, plant and equipment
	
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost comprising of purchase price and any initial directly attributable cost of bringing 
the asset to its working condition for its intended use, less accumulated depreciation (other than freehold land) and impairment 
loss, if any.
	
Depreciation is provided for property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis so as to expense the cost less residual value 
over their estimated useful lives as prescribed in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 except in respect of certain categories 
of assets, where the useful life of the assets has been assessed based on a technical evaluation. The estimated useful lives and 
residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any change in estimate accounted for on a 
prospective basis.
	
The estimated useful lives are as mentioned below:
Type of asset
Useful lives
Buildings
20 years*
Leasehold improvements
Lease term
Plant and equipment
10 years*
Computer equipment
4 years*
Vehicles
4 years*
Office equipment
2-5 years*
Electrical installations
4-10 years*
Furniture and fixtures
5 years*
	
* The Company believes that the technically evaluated useful lives, different from Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013, best 
represent the period over which these assets are expected to be used.
	
Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until construction and installation are complete and the asset is ready for 
its intended use.
	
Property, plant and equipment with finite life are evaluated for recoverability whenever there is any indication that their carrying 
amounts may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less cost to 
sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) 
to which the asset belongs.
	
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
