Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
188
Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
	
(i)	
Leases
	
	
The Group evaluates if an arrangement qualifies to 
be a lease as per the requirements of Ind AS 116. 
Identification of a lease requires significant judgement. 
The Group uses significant judgement in assessing the 
lease term (including anticipated renewals) and the 
applicable discount rate. 
	
	
The Group determines the lease term as the 
noncancellable period of a lease, together with both 
periods covered by an option to extend the lease 
if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that 
option; and periods covered by an option to terminate 
the lease if the Group is reasonably certain not to 
exercise that option. In assessing whether the Group 
is reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend a 
lease, or not to exercise an option to terminate a lease, 
it considers all relevant facts and circumstances that 
create an economic incentive for the Group to exercise 
the option to extend the lease, or not to exercise the 
option to terminate the lease. The Group revises the 
lease term if there is a change in the noncancellable 
period of a lease. 
	
	
The discount rate is generally based on the 
incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease being 
evaluated or for a portfolio of leases with similar 
characteristics.
6)	
Recent pronouncements
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards under 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued 
from time to time. For the year ended March 31, 2024, 
MCA has not notified any new standards or amendments to 
the existing standards applicable to the Group. 
7)	
Business combinations
	
The Group accounts for its business combinations under 
acquisition method of accounting. Acquisition related costs 
are recognised in the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss as incurred. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the condition 
for recognition are recognised at their fair values at the 
acquisition date.
	
Purchase consideration paid in excess of the fair value 
of net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Where 
the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities exceed 
the cost of acquisition, after reassessing the fair values 
of the net assets and contingent liabilities, the excess is 
recognised as capital reserve.
	
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is initially 
measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling 
interests’ proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable 
net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on an 
acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to acquisition, 
the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the 
amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the 
non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in 
equity of subsidiaries.
	
Business combinations arising from transfers of interests in 
entities that are under common control are accounted at 
historical cost. The difference between any consideration 
given and the aggregate historical carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities of the acquired entity is recorded in 
shareholders’ equity.
8)	
Financial assets, financial liabilities and equity 
instruments
	
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the 
Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument. Financial assets and liabilities are initially 
measured at fair value, except for trade receivables which 
are initially measured at transaction price. Transaction 
costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or 
issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than 
financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair 
value measured on initial recognition of financial asset or 
financial liability. 
	
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, 
or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another 
entity. The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, 
and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, 
cancelled or have expired.
	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
The Group considers all highly liquid investments, which 
are readily convertible into known amounts of cash that are 
subject to an insignificant risk of change in value to be cash 
equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of balances 
with banks which are unrestricted for withdrawal and 
usage.
	
Financial assets at amortised cost
	
Financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost if these financial assets are held within a business 
whose objective is to hold these assets in order to collect 
contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of the 
financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows 
that are solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding.
	
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
	
Financial assets are measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income if these financial assets are held 
within a business whose objective is achieved by both 
collecting contractual cash flows on specified dates that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding and selling financial assets.
